Though, I don't think people need to hold a grudge, but I question whether this way of doing things should become commonplace.
The way the cabinet member put it was crude, but it is true that there are a lot of foreign migrant sex workers.
It seems that no matter how hard they try, people over there simply can't pull off a kimono.
The company that was contracted by the university entrance examination centre, that made such a mess of the grading, was the Center for Research on Learning and Educational Assessments, a subsidiary 100% controlled by Benesse Holdings.
Nekopara is targetting overseas users
I guess it all depends on the updates
If you rattle the IOC too much, they may snap and withhold the right to host the games
But there are too many terrifying things, so it's difficult.
For some reason, with this kind of single-player adventure game, I feel it's difficult to play just the DLC afterwards.
Shut the fuck up!
A representative notary public of the office declined to be interviewed.
.
I can't get the word "Connect 2" out of my head, I wonder if I've caught too much sun?
.
Up until now, the cost of lunch ingredients had been included in the childcare fee.
The place with all the foxes didn't look any different apart from the colour, but the graphics are great.
I'd become a believer if they remastered Myst 1-3
People say "online right-wingers" but there are examples where it's been edited that way to show on TV, so what is an "online right-winger"?
If you just play this sequel, or spin-off, then it won't make sense.
However, what is regrettable is that even though an unprecedentedly intense typhoon was forecast, I hate that it was only on the day, when the typhoon was at its most severe, that the government told people to evacuate, take shelter and protect themselves
You should evacuate the day before.
.
Bum detection
I'm worried about when the enthusiasm dies down.
They'll be able to obtain some new magic words instead of just blaming the democratic party.
Hi-V Gundam is also pretty popular, but V Gundam's level of recognition and popularity are in a whole different league
Or will the Xerox bit be taken away and Fuji Xerox will become just Fuji?
It's at a level where I wouldn't buy it even if it was 75% off.
What a miserable bunch
Something at the level of Final Fantasy would sell really well, even if it was only a port.
The people pay taxes for their happiness and well-being and leave the politics to the politicians, who, in response to that trust, literally devote their life to the cause
Red type, yellow type, green type, blue type
Baby goat headbutt!
If there were lots of temp jobs like this it would be a seller's market, if not it would be a buyer's market
Way of the Samurai
There are multiple.
Don't you think that's hate speech?
Before that I voted for the Japanese Communist Party.
A fire on a government aircraft!
Even if you blame the general public for the examples above, it's the fault of civic groups and left-wing parties that no improvement has occurred in this regard, isn't it?
It's raining.
(Not that I remember whether I knew that or not.)
Another murder by a Japanese.
.
The media and the nongovernment parties should tackle the corruption behind the entrance exam reforms". I'm sure there are Souka Gakkai affiliates in this group that the Ministry of Education made.
There's no basis for it, just that an idiot's delusion caused a huge sensation when it caught the attention of a ton of idiots. The terms just say that they have to submit it, and it doesn't say a single thing about having to sell it first at Steam.
Oh, I've been waiting for this for so long. I see someone like Ludwig in the image with Khalid on it, but will he be involved in the main story......?
>"From what I have been told, two female teachers who were at the center of the bullying were dismissed from disciplinary action.
Lapras used Double Team =͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞)===͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞)
Huh, seriously?
