23 upvotes...
It's weird, whenever something becomes unavailable to buy I start wanting to collect it
The new video has far more positive ratings than negative ones, and the number of views went over 250,000 views overnight.
You can certainly feel a welcoming mood and lots of anticipation.
But, on the other hand, is it just going to sell because of all the buzz around it?
Now that five years have passed, I wonder if the nostalgia will win over the resentment.
Though, I don't think people need to hold a grudge, but I question whether this way of doing things should become commonplace.
It used to be like that for Japanese homebrew games as well, right?
If you get to my level then on the way from the station to my house I'm just playing music normally from speakers
Imagine that, undoubtedly an old, single guy with no wife or kids!
?
I didn't believe the message saying that the lovely folks at 5chan had completed the maintenance, lol
I'm done with SINoALICE, so it's on to Girl Friend
Introducing private exams as a policy would boost profit companies and organisations related to education, such as prep schools and test preparation centres.
The 11th electoral precinct of the LDP in Tokyo, headed by Shimomura, received political contributions totalling over 12.89 million yen from educational companies and organisations during the seven years from 2005 to 2011.
They also received a further 11.6 million yen in donations in the four years from 2014 to 2017.
Figures
Make a hentai game
There are 550,000 Tsutomu Miyazakis here!
It can't dodge machine gun fire or avoid landmines.
High school dropout and former actress who is associated with the Nippon Kaigi.
Whatever social game I tried in the past I didn't continue for long, but I've become hooked on Romancing Saga Re;universe since starting it last year because it allows you to play for free.
I had been against the idea of pay-to-play and intended to buy an app that you can buy outright, but ended up paying for items for the first time in my life.
But recently I've started paying 3,000 yen for clothes, so things are getting a bit out of hand.
How will they broadcast it?
If they're not able to broadcast anything in front of a boundless natural setting, they need to quit that job right away.
To be honest, nothing changes if they just alter the graphics but don't improve anything else, I'm sick of Super Meat Boy clones
Oh, the one that's rumored to be a like a mixture of lowlevelaware and NoMoral...
Oh man, I cried laughing
HDDs still win in terms of cost per size
Also, thanks to NAND flash memory, the ability (life span) that data can be saved without degradation has dropped
It doesn't look painful, but it probably hurts.
Well, I don't know without seeing the lineup and price, but if you can buy it on the understanding that there won't be any random or exclusive items, then it seems like it could be good value
TIL that!
I have that.
I think there's a fair few people like that?
If there's something I've never worn and it's dirt cheap, I'll try it on and attempt to force it into different variations.
Or deliberately buying something that I'm not interested in at all, just because a friend recommended it.
It's the first time I've seen the rules for this subreddit, but I've been breaking number 4 ever since I was born
I'd like to be dominated in my workwear
I hereby name the holes in the manholes covers, dickholes.
The way the cabinet member put it was crude, but it is true that there are a lot of foreign migrant sex workers.
Especially as when it gets full the flood control function is lost it will overflow
Then, the explosion of that "timebomb" is not so much an emergency discharge, but the dam itself bursting
True, although Rina Poyo gets a lot of exposure, with a 77cm bust, she's junior high school level.
Actually, Miki-ne also has a modest bust size at 80cm, and Shiburin is the same.
Yui-chan is a bouncing 84cm, though.
Even now, I think the Bellett 1600GT looks cool
If you go to Europe or America and cosplay as a samurai with your hair tied up in a topknot, people will think it's cool.
It seems that no matter how hard they try, people over there simply can't pull off a kimono.
It's not a difference in culture, it's the difference in physique, so nowadays even among Japanese people, models and so on find it more difficult.
A little while back I dozed off when it was chilly and caught a cold, so I'm thinking of buying a cheap sleeping bag that can be easily spread out and put away, and I'm looking at Amazon right now, but to be honest, all the reviews, both good and bad, seem like fake reviews, so they're absolutely no help in deciding what I should buy
The worst thing is there are lots of Chinese-made ones that rip off the designs of famous brands without a care, and it's a pain trying to figure out their performance from their appearance
Even if you set them to walk during the day, they still come at you running slightly, so it's pretty tough
In other words, shortly before it was due to go on sale on Steam, if they went exclusive with someone else, the users would feel bitter, and so EGS only wanted to make the game exclusive to stir up interest, and they don't care whether it's a good game or a game that would sell, that's why they don't want to sell it if it's not an exclusive, at least that's what I get from reading this.
Perhaps someone working there made the wrong call, and they'll try to smooth things over by saying it was a misunderstanding.
But since they were willing to lay down an appropriate amount of money for the game and weren't interested in non-exclusive sales, it seems clear that this was not the judgement of one person, but the judgement criteria of the company that was behind it.
And so it seems that this judgement criteria that has been exposed amounts to the same as the extreme things that listicle websites and YouTubers go to get attention, so they're not evaluating the game on its individual merits, but on its ability to create buzz and get pageviews on their store and become a topic on social media, right? That's essentially what this is
Even though it's a long weekend, this thread has failed to get off the ground
I don't see any problem with passing this translation on to the developer.
If they had an official response, it would be a positive thing for the users, and it should fit the same purpose as a fan translation.
Then, when they come to release the official Japanese version, if they base their version on the fan translation that's been passed to them, it would reduce costs, thereby making it easier to release the Japanese version, which is only a good thing for the players.
So far, it's simply a matter of weight up the pros and cons.
Then, when it comes to the question of morals, the company publishing the Japanese version, who have basically received the fan translation for free, would need to decide whether to make their translation based on it exclusive to the console version, or give it back to the original fan community with a PC version.
In the first place, a fan translation is a volunteer act undertaken in the spirit of giving as many people as a possible a chance to play a Japanese version, so if you use the fruits of that labor, you can't help but agree with that spirit.
In other words, I think it's fair to criticise the in-house Japanese translation, including for other titles, as being a bit one-sided if they make it exclusively for console when they've used the fan translation of the PC version.
I'm not saying that they should release the translation of the console version on PC, for which they don't have the sales rights, at the exact same time, but I think it would be nice to give it back to PC players after some time has passed.
Instead, it would be good to continue publishing Japanese versions of titles in cooperation with fan translations.
That's impressive, lol
Make sure to let them know something like this shouldn't be happening.
Valve should give us this by default
I haven't had a go with the beta UI, so maybe it has this, but I'd love to be able to add some kind of personal note to individual games.
If you make a review private, then you can't make it public later, so it makes it hard to check stuff.
Right now, I'm personally adding detailed tags, saying things like "it was fun", "it wasn't great", "I plan to play in the future", etc. but to be honest, they're difficult to use.
An example sentence might be something like, "The genre is OO; I played XX in the same genre and it was fun, so I want to play this at some point," so you have the reason for playing the game, or once you've completed a game, writing down your personal thoughts on it rather than leaving a review, that's the sort of feature I'd like to see.
Is it made in tkool? lol
You know what's amazing?
Don't go overboard, lol
The company that was contracted by the university entrance examination centre, that made such a mess of the grading, was the Center for Research on Learning and Educational Assessments, a subsidiary 100% controlled by Benesse Holdings.
At the end of August this year, they were awarded the contract after putting in a successful bid of around 6 billion 160 million yen in open competitive bidding, and the period of the contract lasts until the end of March, 2024.
Benesse runs the GTEC exam, one of the private English examinations.
Benesse's section manager in charge of the GTEC was also on the Ministry of Education's panel of experts regarding the introduction of private English examinations.
This is also something Benesse was involved in?
They seem to be overtly following only their own interests.
Do bald guys always turn into losers?
It's like with Strike Freedom Gundam.
Yeah, you can get a good price for it.
Although it's almost impossible to extract any of the information in that table from an app anyway.
I wonder what it means to start over?
To weaken strong abilities or something?
Nekopara is targetting overseas users
Those that eat, those that get eaten and those that vie for the leftover scraps.
A chaotic subreddit where those who don't have fangs can't survive.
That is lowlevelaware, where all things immoral are turned into weapons.
I guess it all depends on the updates
Oh, I was gonna say this is geoblocked, but on closer look there isn't anything I particularly want anyway.
I was kind of interested in playing Catherine, because it seems scary, but I'm not that into puzzle & adventure as a genre.
Looks interesting
Well, everybody has their own thoughts, and there are too many people that simply perceive it as endemic of society today, and you know what it would be like to argue with each one of them individually, so I've taken to not looking at other people's impressions
So, I'll say it again as a word of warning, everybody has their own thoughts (no matter how dimwitted), but more than that, they just want to write their impressions
Whoa, cool
If you rattle the IOC too much, they may snap and withhold the right to host the games
A snail without a shell.
If there weren't things like parasites I'm sure they wouldn't be disliked so much.
But there are too many terrifying things, so it's difficult.
But how much of that goes to the performer?
If it's a low amount, then something shady is going on (stealth marketing)
With the last game, the main story was pretty good, and I was quite interested in the DLC, but of course it didn't happen to be on sale when I played it, so I thought I would wait until it went on sale, and then when it was on sale I was no longer interested in the game, so I still haven't played the DLC.
For some reason, with this kind of single-player adventure game, I feel it's difficult to play just the DLC afterwards.
Although having said that, not enough time has passed since I was focussed intently on playing the main story for me to consider playing it again, plus I'm just unsure about this whole business of releasing DLC later on.
So therefore, with the Shadow of the Tomb Raider, I'm thinking of playing once the ultimate edition comes out, I think I'll be satisfied with the complete edition
The soil is made of blocks like in Minecraft
If that's the case, then after they've won, they'll split apart and the voters will say, "Oh the opponents were no good after all, next time I'll stick with the LDP again," so that's no good.
If they can't win when the votes are split, then there's no future for them anyway.
Or rather, the moment the votes become split, the opposition can no longer win.
No matter how many parties there are, no one can win without the full backing of the voters.
I remember thinking as I passed by a theatre on the Asuka II, "There's probably no one in here when a film is on."
Perhaps it would've been good if I'd gone in one time.
But I think a cinema on a cruise ship would definitely make me feel sick.
Shut the fuck up!
Oh, I remember playing ABZU when it was included in the monthly bundle and being disappointed.
I really like sea games and underwater games, but this was really boring.
It didn't have that sense that something was in the water with you, which is the best part about underwater games, it all felt I was watching an underwater musical taking place in a pre-established harmony.
I mean I know the game has scored high marks for that, but it was completely different to the kind of underwater game that I look forward to.
This is genius, I thought it was a recording at first
I just uploaded it from my PC and it was completed instantly, I wonder if it's an issue with the connection?
Beautiful Country...
Why not just start paying pensions from the age of 90?
Enlist all the young people not receiving pensions in the army, allow all the middle-aged right-wing net users that support Abe to die out, and make the young lay down their lives for the nation, that way the government can secure a slave army for a low budget, and maintain it without bankrupting the national finances
I'm sure the people concerned would be strongly opposed, so it would be necessary to cut cabinet members' annual expenditure to 1/10th (to be honest, I think 3 million yen a year is a waste)
In medieval England, the king was executed for treason, so if you think about it, it shouldn't be a problem if you vastly reduce the annual spending of cabinet ministers
Seems like it would be good as sweet bean paste for restaurant-use
What would you use it for other than sweet adzuki bean soup?
A representative notary public of the office declined to be interviewed.
But a notary public is supposed to be in a professional position and have a responsibility toward society, right?
Holding onto passports and not paying wages is not something that they are allowed to do, right?
Isn't the association of notary publics going to do anything about this?
I am Mac Crew was also hilarious
Bang
Birds can get really aggressive.
So cute.
Well, it can't be helped

Looking at this reminds me how great Firefox Send was
Oh, this is something that was being talked about on the Steam thread in the PC games forum
Reviews that are only about 3 lines long with obviously strangely constructed sentences are suspicious, but for ones that are longer and touch on the negatives, I guess you end up trusting them as genuine reviews
Especially since you sometimes see someone who is not Japanese leaving a review in Japanese
It would be easier to spot if they made it so you could see the number of people that own the game and the number of reviews on the same page.
I do find Steam reviews to extremely helpful, so I wish they would take measures like this
Didn't word of this already go round about 2 weeks ago?
So the issue that everyone has been talking about recently was a vulnerability?
Yeah well, I don't trust Mark Kern, he's well known in the games industry as a fervent Trump supporter and anti-LGBT reactionary
But anyway, the subreddit where the "Gamers Rise Up" meme that Mark mentions originated (r/GamersRiseUp) started off as a place where white male gamers were seriously convinced that they were being discriminated against by women and the LGBT community, and then turned into a subreddit of like-minded individuals who loved to spout racist and homophobic slurs 😂 😂 😂

She has no abs
You mean like Abe and Yoshihiko Noda
I opened it out if curiosity, now you need to apologise to me!
Hey!
I think there was this idea that getting people to write their thoughts even if they played it on a different platform would be better for sales (than no review at all)
Personally, I wonder about when they say write 3 reviews to receive points during the Steam Sale, I suspect that's to blame for all the subpar reviews being churned out
I'd like to see a "Free (Extream Game Space)" flair added
I know what you mean saying that there's nowhere else to post it so you put it here...but this is r/steamr after all.
The point of the Extream Game Space in the first place is to spread user awareness through distributing and promoting free games, but since it ends up with players promoting it themselves, it's not great when you see it. Edit:
I wonder if there's anyone elite on the plaintiffs' side?
I've had 2 scintigrams taken
I feel that this would be resolved if they swapped places.
I wonder if it would end with the owner being pushed off?
Spicy
I feel like I can sympathise with this.

Nostalgic
Now that's what I call breech birth
"The Line of Death" is a terrifying title, but I feel like I could learn a lot from this page
Greta will also be smiling at this

/r/inbou_ja These guys are highly aware.
It brings on a state of euphoria.
I am the king of all beasts who knows everything in the world!
Students who no longer use Rikunabi think and act for themselves and are pieces of shit with no potential for becoming a corporate slave
I set the girlfriend card in my deck and then go on a date with my girlfriend
Could it be depression?
I want that feature
I actually am this girl... It's tough being big breasted you know, lol
I've been studying Japanese for about two months now, so I'm not very good at writing yet.
To be honest, I don't think much of female writers of erotic games
It could just be that the family restaurant I went to was a bit of a fail
Especially as I've heard that convenience store bubble tea is disgusting
Well in any case, it's something to talk about ( ՞ټ՞ )
I guess it's possible since pork is almost the staple food in China
If you boil potatoes, the skins come right off without needing to use a knife.
Since EA Sports and Battlefield are signature titles to get people to convert to Origin, I suppose you have no choice but to buy them there
But with Ultima Online and The Sims, I think it might attract more customers if they were also available outside of Origin?


Well of course in Japan, we have Matsui's famous cleaning stick
That’s.
Your.
Way of doing things?!
It was completed surprisingly quickly, wasn't it
There are a lot of negative opinions, but this is a prize draw
So you could enter lots of times and then sell it on
People who use Okemaru-suisan tend to go to Sakura-suisan rather than Isomaru-suisan (I don't get it)
Battle Chef Brigade was good
the matching puzzle part is harder than the action part
It's cool right now, so you might think it's gonna be an easy summer this year, right? This must be Komei's trap.
It won't be long before we'll all be like, "Agh, it's Kanu!"
What, really?
It's not Steam, but on the new GOG Galaxy you can manage games from other platforms all together in one place, so I don't think that's relevant
I didn't know whether to quote the whole thing, so I just took one part from the video.
It's possible that the translation might be wrong
The 4 main features of the update:
- Global search that can find and launch any game with a single key press
- An ability to manually add any game to GOG Galaxy
- Even more ways to customise and organise your gaming library across platforms
- A new sidebar section for all game installations and updates
The global search and sidebar seem useful
In the current beta update of the Steam library, you can also install games with a single click, but as someone who buys games from all over the place, the fact that it integrates with other platforms is very enticing
I got Starpoint Gemini 2 for free, and ranked up a fair few hours playing it, so it was pretty enjoyable, but when I stopped playing, then that was it really.
Partly because I got it for free, and partly because the latest release has Japanese, I feel like I want to support it, but I don't really feel motivated enough to start playing SG2 again and then buy the new game if I'm having fun.
How should I put it? It was kind of a forgettable game, which makes it difficult to review.
Since I finally found the time to try it out...
It's a sorry state of affairs that the settings of the game mean you inherit the same level and equipment...
That said, I will concede that a lot of fun dialogue has been added.
And the villianous expression on Sergey Hax?
Lea's facial graphics are also pretty cool, so if you haven't tried it yet, you should definitely check this game out.
There are a lot of unmonitored groups so I sorted them all out after the recent issue with spam, including reddit
Now I only really follow Fanatical and ASF
There are so many curators who are neither good nor bad
It'll be seriously bad if we don't check this kind of thing
I wondered which one, but I looked at a similar product
You can't just bandy about bad business practices like that
This month's humble bundle is simply too good
The three they revealed in advance were already pretty good, but then add to that Shenmue and SYNTHETIK.
What's more, Soul Calibur in next month's bundle, which genre-wise there's zero chance of me playing it, can be exchanged for a $5 coupon, which for me gives it a score of 120 out of 100.
I was able to activate Shenmue.
Seems like it will only make the case that bullying that is not serious can be left alone
The level of affinity between online right-wingers and lefties is about the same level as for yankees and otaku
Especially from what you can tell by just looking online, either the contempt for otaku in the world will continue to rise, or Japan will be dragged down into the dump and we'll all be treated with contempt
Why are you trying to hide it? I'm the same.
That might be the case if it was a title from a small development studio without the budget for Japanese localisation
But the fact that it's a major company that supports 13 languages yet doesn't include Japanese, instead relying on fan translations
I think they need to reflect on themselves
I can't get the word "Connect 2" out of my head, I wonder if I've caught too much sun?
Aren't most recent online games made so that you can at least play solo as well?  I've been playing mainly online games for a long while, and I think it's a lot easier to play solo now, you know.
In the past even the quests in the story were built around the premise that you would be undertaking them as part of a multiplayer team, so it was basically impossible to play solo.
Even now, there are still many games where you can't complete the final stage on your own, but then you can just ignore that bit.
This is just picking up chicks at Starbucks, isn't it?!
That's because even when we're giggling about boobs, Newsokur continued to just call us a bunch of Japs


This is how you end up with multiple forks (thinking back over several open source projects)
Even if you crawl along stealthily, there's no way that's safe!
A game you can't put down.
If you keep trying to improve your record, time simply flies by.
Record time: 4.1 hours
Pizza's expensive though right
This past year, I've suddenly lost interest in manga, is this what it's like to grow old?
Games that have been stealth marketed always turn out to be awful anyway
Nothing really happens when you're unemployed, so you have less and less things to talk about
Source: me
The reason that I didn't want to work is because you have to go to job interviews
I'm glad it's been ported, but it's painful that the reproduction of the ZX touch panel hasn't been fixed in the nearly 4 years since Azure Striker Gunvolt, and I wish they'd do it properly

The cow is cute.
The one who says Kaiji is Kaiji, why don't you fuck off, get downvoted into oblivion and fuck back off on the Espoir... huh?
It's an Extream Game Space exclusive.
Yeah, it was Japanese territory then, so they were Japanese.
I wouldn't mind a post-war hooker.
I guess you would have to be suspicious of a short driver recorder video being used to make an accusation
It makes me laugh simply because they put "Gala" in the name.
I still strongly associate it as a bundle of shitty games in mind, so I end up comparing this game with the kind of game that would sell for 50 yen.
And yet, the list price is 2,000 yen, it's got pretty good reviews and it currently has around 100 players, so it seems like it's selling reasonably well.
But, with this type of game that is associated with a seller of bundles, I expect it will end up going into a bundle, the same goes for selling the Humble Bundle
Even if the childcare fee becomes free, for children aged 3-5, you must pay for the lunch ingredients yourself.
Up until now, the cost of lunch ingredients had been included in the childcare fee.
So it should have been made free, but as the responsibility for some of the costs continues, there are even actually some people for whom the financial burden has increased.
So, isn't essentially meaningless?
Oh right
Aaaah❤️
If you were to make this electric, and continuously load bullets into the ammo belt, then make the feed into the gun electric as well...
Does anyone really want this?
Productivity (sales per employee) in August increased by 39.9% compare to the same month the previous year.
Shortening meeting times to allow employees to work more efficiently in a shorter time, and increasing remote meetings to save on travel time contributed to this achievement.
Employees responded well to the 3-day weekend system, with 92.1% saying they rated highly, showing that qualitative satisfaction was also high.
Productivity increases, you save time and you get more holidays, nothing but positives, right?
I just happened to impulse buy Deserts of Kharak yesterday.
We might only be maggots, but even maggots turn into flies.
Alright!
This maggot is a strong and frustrating foe.
I'm talking about in games.
No way, really?
That's a shock...  This photo is featured in school encyclopedias.
n00b n00b?
If what you are saying was on a topic that people tend to be neutral towards and think logically about, then you'd be showered with upvotes
However, this is is a place full of people that see Steam as a god and hate Epic, so you're wasting your breath
Me too, and I pre-ordered it on Green Man Gaming, lol. This sucks, I stopped playing after I beat the Scorchbeast Queen, but I guess there's more stuff you can do now?
It's shocking to think that this a comment from one of the central figures of the LDP
Isn't the idea of putting an oxidising agent in your body kinda scary?
If you're transported to another world, the first thing to do is climb up a cliff
I'll allow it.
History is forgiving.
The slightest sacrifice leads to a brighter future for your fellow men.
Even if you're just trying to make people laugh, you have to make sure it's safe
This is ridiculous
"It's not productive for me to say here what mistakes I have made in hindsight, at what point in time I have made an error in judgement."
Is this a declaration that they have no regrets?
It's easy to take from this that, instead of identifying and solving the problem, their attitude is to put all their effort into stopgap measures.
Something's happening where it's not letting me get it even when I click the link
In Japan, "The economy is not recovering, but society is stable.
The unemployment rate is low, and people's income and level of education are also above the OECD average," concluding, "Economic growth is not the whole picture."
But wouldn't it piss you off in the middle of an economic war that you're losing to hear, "Economic growth isn't everything"?
That's the same as in a fight where the other side asserts their dominance, and says, "Strength isn't everything," before proceeding to beat you up and take all you money, isn't it?
Wow, Assassin's Creed has done well
There's too many listicle websites,
Really?
I just know I'm gonna end up saying "serves them right".
If you really want to stick with Tokyo that much, then change the season
It looks like it's gonna be epic
The place with all the foxes didn't look any different apart from the colour, but the graphics are great.
I thought the pink animals were cute, and I also liked the crocodile on another trailer.
Sweet, it's pretty sloppy though.
But they've been thoroughly compared in the OP's picture in the original thread, right?
Well, I suppose you could say the plot was basically the same.
You might say it's people trolling the reviews, but in Unity's case, it was clear that the developers conveniently didn't delete positive reviews even when there was no content, which is pretty pointless
They react by deleting the negative reviews, so you could turn the tables by making it look like a recommendation and then writing a negative review, and that would get past
Someone else has written about the only good point, so here are the bad things:
- Most of all, it's so heavy.
It would be okay if you could take the rumble motors out, though.
- The LR buttons get squashed easily.
You can tell if you take it apart, but the plastic parts are too thin.
- The analog sticks' stroke is too long.
I compared it with the 360 controller, so I thought maybe if I get used to it... but I couldn't.
- The retail prices is too expensive.
I felt I had been cheated as I assumed it must be good because it's so expensive, yet I ended up getting rid of it.
What's bad is that after this, another person wrote about it, though
But PAYDAY 2 is great fun, they basically published an article saying it's fun to play even now
And they're also developing the HTV-X?
Seems their technical ability is improving
Based on that conclusion, I can only think that she's simply saying whatever comes into her mind.
Saying anything other than enough measures have been put in place to protect the athletes and spectators so it's fine for it to take place in Tokyo won't save face.
Well, I know what my money's on: 1. Epic exclusive 2. DMM exclusive 3. CyberStep exclusive in Japanese only 4. DMM exclusive in Japanese only 5.
Speaking of THQ Nordic, they're buying up other development companies at a furious pace, I wonder if they'll snap up anywhere in Japan.
It's a place where they carefully revive old titles, so it would be good if they bought a company that has various dormant titles lying around.
Although saying that, even now they're aren't many independent developers that possess the rights to the sort of titles that are popular today.
Plus it's difficult because Japanese companies hate becoming affiliated with foreign companies.
I'd become a believer if they remastered Myst 1-3
Speaking of which, recently I've only seen the Steam Controller available through resellers, I wonder if a new model will come out?
You're trapping and killing one of your own?
The ability to hide the original price is not working very well
If you want to take in some ozone, what about a walk in the forest?
Even some light hiking helps to keep you physically and mentally fit.
This is Cool Japan, let's export it all over the world!
It says it in the article, but people seem to be forgetting about the heavy rains in western Japan
The people who said it wasn't that dam's fault then no longer boast about the dam
At the end of the day, it seems like a bunch of people that just want to give the democratic party a bashing.
Shocking, this is a perfect example of how much politics is driven by money
I'm not going this time, but it seems like people going to Comic Market might die
I put forth a dollar but it didn't include Trillion, but I own it anyway so I didn't particularly want it
People say "online right-wingers" but there are examples where it's been edited that way to show on TV, so what is an "online right-winger"?
So what if I'm Magikarp?
Do you need a friend to make you feel better?
It's difficult uploading to imgur, is there a particular time that is better for uploading?
"We're going to make mods possible if you just bear with us a little longer"
"Right, you can use mods now, but you have to pay a monthly fee"
This is an awful act of the level that even Japanese companies rarely do.
I waited for the Steam version because I thought a Bethesda game would be impossible to do on console, but now I think I should just go ahead and get 76 for PS4 because it's the only one they're selling cheaply.
I wish they wouldn't bring that garbage from Naro to PC
There was a message board of a community I used to browse quite often a long time ago, but I stopped looking at it when it started getting spammed with some serious trolling

Has Epic offered the original Alan Wake for free in the past?
If you just play this sequel, or spin-off, then it won't make sense.
It's not even that clear if you have played the main game.
Yandere brocon ( ◠‿◠ )
I feel fictional robots in general have lost their status
Although Gundam, which is accepted as an extension of the human body, is gaining popularity overseas, but I don't think the trend of admiring bipedal puppet-like machines is possible anymore
If it doesn't have character, then at least the ability to be able to operate real heavy machinery sounds fun, so let's all build a dam in an open world digger simulator!
"I really wasn't interested"
Hmm, well there are many people who become police officers for bad reasons, when you take that into account, I'd say this is only a minor offence
lets fix him with dismemberment
I guess that means a lot of people are fooled by photoshopped images.
But there definitely are some that indistinguishable from the real thing
As part of a group that migrated from 2chan.
Although I still return there occasionally.
I had a bad experience with the second one, so I won't buy it
I wasn't keen on the idea of linking it with my Yahoo Japan ID, so I only charge it at 7-Eleven ATMs
When I researched it, it said there were various different kinds of points
Type | Explanation
PayPay Money | Points that can only be used with an account whose holder has verified their identity.
Points can be withdrawn
PayPay Money Light | This points balance increases when you top-up as normal
PayPay Bonus | Points that you earn as cashback
PayPay Bonus Light | Limited time points (60 days) that are rewarded through promotions, etc.
For accounts where the user hasn't verified their identity, the Money Light balance basically goes up when you charge the account, and if you pay from the Money Light balance, you earn 1.5% in Bonus points
Then, if you have verified your identity, you can top-up your Money balance, and use it in the same way as Money Light, but you can also withdraw it to your bank account if necessary
Doesn't next month look amazing?
Even if nothing else is added, everyone is sure to want to buy this.
Even if it's not as good as next month, this month is not too bad either.
For a while, the Humble Monthly took a bit of a dive, but I wonder if it's having a bit of a comeback.
I'm sure their fort is already being flamed
It was originally a dam with flood control, if it didn't have it, they wouldn't have been able to regulate the quantity of water
In the summertime droughts, the fields become parched
The Met Agency warned that Typhoon Hagibis would cause unprecedented amounts of damage, and that turned out to be the case
It's not an easy task to limit the damage to 0
However, what is regrettable is that even though an unprecedentedly intense typhoon was forecast, I hate that it was only on the day, when the typhoon was at its most severe, that the government told people to evacuate, take shelter and protect themselves
You should evacuate the day before.
If not, then it's deeply regrettable that so many lives were lost
I'm not sure when it started, but it was already there when I realised, so I thought I'd make this thread.
The bundle has started at a weird time, considering there wasn't an update on Tuesday.
But, the contents are pretty good.
And yet, the BTA price doesn't seem to be increasing
20 is a long way- a real long way
Customer “Waiter!
Bring me diarrhea bread too!
Cocoa "coming right up!
I'm so busy I don't know what to do, lol"   Rize "Hey Chino, diarrhea toast sales have surpassed coffee sales"
Because, among Japanese speakers, there isn't anyone who partakes in the format of adding text to pictures to force it to be understood in a certain light.
In things like 2chans Guidelines board and image responses, there are examples that equate to memes, such as photoshopped Doraemon, Naruto threads, "Someone who Searches for Shadows at Night", firework collages, Harry Potter ear rape, Diagnosis Maker, Stickman Manga, photoshopped and other joke images, but nothing that really equates to visual memes from the English-speaking world; the site Bokete gained users in an instant, but it just exists and doesn't progress.
There are people in the English-speaking world who share manga templates with blank speech bubbles for you to fill in, but in Japan, unauthorised reproduction without any kind of connection or permission is considered sacrilege, and altering a manga is like asking for death, so I don't think it would be possible
Using Reddit together with other services available in Japan really makes me keenly aware of the phrase, "big in Japan/only in Japan", and compared with China or other countries, Japan really doesn't have much common ground with the rest of the world
Year on year, jobs are increased, and the people who increase them are selected, in other words, service providers are selected, that's the citizens' point of view.
Then there are those who accept money for any work from the government office, whatever the job is, that's the point of view of companies... Once you start, you're unable to quit.
But it's not the citizens that create all the unnecessary work, its traders, parliament members, landowners, influential people in the region (lol) and lobby groups (such as B, and medical associations), making a living by shifting tax money around.
Aren't they basically just tax thieves?
From the interview's introduction, it seems they touch on the story quite a lot, so it seems like it might be good to read it after completing the game
With Dropbox Transfer the maximum file size you can transfer is 100MB with Basic, the free plan for individuals, and 2GB with Plus, which costs 1,200 yen a month
What microbe?
It gives you diarrhoea, so is it some kind of gut bacteria?
Perhaps the other day's heavy rainfall caused sewage to get mixed in with the clean water?
If you buy something expensive from overseas online, then it's usually DHL or FedEx, but with the current situation in Hong Kong, you can't use Royal Mail or EMS
There's also UPS, but DHL and FedEx that I mentioned above are more reliable
I don't think the consumption tax is going up so much that you'll need to buy things from overseas, but maybe one day...
I think it's still fairly expensive even with 2% cashback, but since you do get cashback, maybe that makes it alright?
Not having a licence only results in an arrest?
lmfao
OMG! I'm a massive fan of Yuki Kaji! I really want this
I can understand wanting to enjoy it all at once, rather than in little bits
Therefore, if you make a clear save file, then it makes it possible to continue, and you can choose whether to return to the past (the final point where you're able to do your own thing) or advance to the future (the world after the ending).
Basically, the additional content can be accessed by going back into the past, so it shouldn't be a problem even if you start now, and there's New Game + as well.
The bit where you can go into the future is paid DLC that is currently being developed (no release date has been set yet), so if you want to wait for the whole thing then I think you'll be waiting for quite a long time.
Hiroyuki
When you think about the fact that she's a high school dropout and former actress who's associated with the Nippon Kaigi...
I simply thought it was because the Joker is an idiot (obvs)
These are pretty much the kind of comments I expected
A loser through and through
The very first Elite that's now available to download requires the disk image and BeeEm414, an emulator for the BBC Micro and Master 128, then once you've launched BeebEM, you need to select BBC Model B Plus as the hardware, then load ELITEBBC.SSD from the disk in order to be able to play it
It's a launchpad for an alien spaceship...
The rights to make into a film have come back, but the film hasn't come out yet.
They appeared in James Cameron's Terminator, though.
A: "Quick, put the fire out!"
Where is the tapioca?
Even if an 8-hour work day is made obligatory (?), productivity and competition will be rubbish, not just because we're being treated like idiots
I guess this means there are a lot of people who don't know about the bad situation with the games hardware board and fake news blogs in the first place
It just means overtime will increase by that same amount
It's not like the amount of work decreases
Is everyone stupid?
Any Japanese people looking to adopt such an indulgent practice probably don't have half a brain between them

Huh, really?
If my home country was Holland, global warming would mean that summers are getting warmer, and winter is getting fairly warm, too.
When you say "in the past", how many years ago is that?
ヽ(⚆.⚆)
At this pricing, the amount for Trove is $5, making it more expensive, I wonder if that's okay
Meanwhile, Xbox Game Pass lets you play The Outer Worlds from the day of release, so it's difficult to justify this price.
Thought it was just the kind of thing they were into
Multiplied by baldness and 0 is the answer.
The reason being, he has only one hairstyle


The teaching staff are putting efforts into training to ensure that this doesn't happen again
Even if they have a training course, I think that's gonna be impossible, right?
That's a nostalgia trip, although I think if you read it now, it would just remind you of bubble-era Japan
When I looked into it, it seems that this is an official service they've begun rolling out
If you don't refuse this horrible service in the settings, Yamato Transport will just casually link to your account
After all, they are working for free
As far as the graphics go, they didn't bother me as much as the dumbbell arms of FF7
The worst thing is that weird font that Square Enix uses in all the remasters
If they just got rid of that one niggle, it would be alright
I've not had a go with it yet, but I guess it's the problem of lacklustre ports, like getting rid of the Chocobos that were in the old Windows version upon which this is based, and not taking the direction that you'd like them to with it
Some people are even saying that the bugs in the old Windows version still exist in this version
Subs are just a variation of the free-to-play model in which they make the base game free and make money of the DLC and items, so it sucks when they put out a bad game and do a runner
On the other hand, places that nurture a good game are a lot better
If I had to say what kind of place Bandai Namco is, then...
But, I don't think there's such thing as a demon that's not an intellectual.
I've never met one, anyway.
Why not January 11th?
The circle of hatred: the Illuminati → bald people → Fumio Miyazaki → the victim in this incident → the police (Illuminati)
Dungeon Master with a map editor looks like it could be good
Bum detection
Then there are the identification techniques designed for very specific use cases.
One pioneering suggestion from a team of Japanese researchers for an anti-theft system for cars was based on using 360 degree sensors to measure the unique shape of the driver's rear end.
Despite achieving a 98 per cent accuracy rate in trials, tragically this important security innovation does not seem to have gone any further than lab testing.
Sensor: "Driver confirmed."
They get treated like dirt as soon as they appear, though
I'm worried about when the enthusiasm dies down.
That moment will be a good opportunity for the LDP.
They'll be able to obtain some new magic words instead of just blaming the democratic party.
Is it Char?
Is this the Pan from Arthur Machen's book, "The Great God Pan"?
lmao, hemorrhoid and shitting in pants. I don't know what to say anymore
Even when it's not JR East's jurisdiction, recently they've switched?
Well, if that's the case then your OS is already leaking information
But I think it would be nice to have that kind of game.
Even it doesn't work right now, I'm sure it will work soon.
At the early stage of development, I think it's good to assume it will be played on a supercomputer.
stop giving exposure to a disfigured freak like him as if it's totally normal
If you break the bread into cubes and put it in the bowl and then put the toppings on, I feel like you'd get a different result
On October 14th, game developers Noa announced on Reddit that they'd released the alpha demo of Elin's Inn for PC.
Thanks for the heads-up!
Oh, looks like EA have bounced back from nowhere.
What's more, it's not any of their old stuff, but a proper new game.
But I wonder if Disney's direction also affects Star Wars games.
And the biggest problem likely to occur for the Steam Community is when they write "EA", people won't be able to tell whether it's "Early Access" or "Electronic Arts".
Hi-V Gundam is also pretty popular, but V Gundam's level of recognition and popularity are in a whole different league
This time there was a shocking amount of despair at the merciless emergency discharge
A finely chiselled man in his thirties reaching out to the lock of the display case
I noticed "that"
It's fine if we don't go back, isn't it?
November's bundle was good, I'm happy about SYNTHETIK.
I would have liked it to have included 11-Memories Retold, but the publisher is Bandai Namco, so...
SKIP
I didn't know that this remaster will be the first time that Romancing Saga 3 is going to be sold overseas.
November 11th is release date of the SNES version.
Thinking about 1995 when the original was released, that was a time when The Elder Scrolls 1 and Ultima VIII were released the previous year in 1994, and The Elder Scrolls 2 and Diablo were released the next year in 1996.
I wonder if the general atmosphere was that Romancing Saga 3 wouldn't sell if it was released abroad.
I think it's got game mechanics that would go down quite well.
Motion sickness camera angle
Because they thinks that's a waste of tape
Being stingy again?

For a long time it has been a flourishing refuge for the whole anonymous creative community, so things would seriously be in chaos if it stopped functioning
I wonder if Way of the Samurai fans desired a new game like this one.
I mean, I don't know because I just jumped on the bandwagon and played each game in the series for only 2-3 weeks, but it doesn't seem to have the same appeal of the previous Way of the Samurai games.
If you took it seriously, you would work up a sweat and get some good exercise
Seko is repeatedly telling each news station that if it's hot then it will be an advantage to the Japanese athletes, but honestly this is just another example of the older generation meddling in the affairs of young people
Guess anybody can become like that
Oh, you were being serious, rofl
When I go abroad I think that Japanese fruits are sweet
I don't know if cancelling their partnership with Xerox means that Fuji Xerox will become a wholly-owned subsidiary
Or will the Xerox bit be taken away and Fuji Xerox will become just Fuji?
They made it possible to jump like in the old game, but you can see that if they made the Neo Contra system 3D like Contra where you move along the axis, the screen would become a mess

Recently, places that aren't like this are on the increase, but I still feel something is off with the prices of games from Japanese developers.
It's true to say that I'm not a customer, but I've played Super Robot Wars in the past, and am interested in what they're like now, but this price doesn't make me want to buy it at all.
It's at a level where I wouldn't buy it even if it was 75% off.
I'd love it if Japanese developers priced it for people with a slight interest like me, and not just the proper fans who are willing to lay out 10,000 yen for it.
I wonder if their joining Steam will mean that the number of old games available will also increase, but I doubt it

Even if you take the cashback into account, I think convenience stores are relatively expensive...🤔
You can't really see the store at all.
If this is what the Halloween sale is like, I wonder if the holiday sale will be okay?
Plus, as far as I can see from the Steam Database, it doesn't seem to be a very big sale.
That's right!
When it comes to families, it is of course impossible for everyone to do as they please.
(For instance if it would be a problem for you to contract the flu, you'd want your partner to be vaccinated too.
) It seems they thought what I was saying was too stupid and found it disagreeable.
Is this genuine?
To make it easier to animate!
Yeah, the angle of view is.
Old guys can get along just fine with a telephoto lens and a macro lens, but a smartphone has neither of those.
I'm Phantom Thief 1412
People without the courage to become unemployed are very shallow as people
The enemies are an organized crime group?
I live in Shizuoka, but there's hardly anywhere where you can use contactless payments other than chains like convenience stores
You can charge it at Seven Bank and at the till at convenience stores, but it seems like you can't charge it at the train station
JR Tokai also has an e-money card for transport called TOICA, but they don't promote it at all, so it's completely unknown and there are hardly any stores use the fact that they accept it as a selling point (the places that do accept it tend to be the places that accept all forms of transport e-money cards)
It's true that it's expensive, but what kind of store has no movie, no screenshots of the field view and gives no indication of the UI?
I mean apart from the people who understand what kind of game it is from the word "G Generation", you can't even tell what type of game this is.
Even if now it's unlikely that new players will be signing up through Steam, the store design is really off.
It looks like if you took good care of it, it would grow into rape.
I imagine this is what it's like if the rainy season is delayed
That's a bit sketchy
He stood holding a bamboo sword
There always used to be at least one teacher at school like this in the old days, didn't there
Riding into the sports ground on a motorbike and attacking players from the front line
I'm happy because I wanted Frog Detective
150GB? I wonder if that means they made all the textures for 4K
With Monster Hunter World, 4K textures are 6GB in full HD and over 8GB in 4K, I guess the people likely to complain are the ones with high-end computers
It's the same as the trolley problem
The operators of the subsidiary and the workers are in dispute
You can save either the operators or the workers by switching tracks.
NEXCO East Japan say they won't get involved
I want to support the workers, but unless they're provided with sufficient funding, they will lose because of the managers' starvation tactics
That's some pretty terrifying water pressure right there
I tried getting Soul Calibur through a proxy, but it worked normally
There are probably risks involved, so please try it at your own risk
Guild Master!
That cowardly pride is far too common
What a miserable bunch
The first eyewitness information on the man who later come to be known as the "Don Juan of Yao".
It’s the first witness account
If we were good allies, does that mean we wouldn't need borders and could return to the pre-war days?
I occasionally wipe with rubbing alcohol when my crotch itches to soothe it
I thought a game available in other countries was finally coming out, but it seems to have received mostly bad reviews...   You can sense from watching the movie that it looks better, but there were some places where it ruins what was good about the original
Even if the game is good
Even though they were just trying to Let It Go
Is it for crime prevention or energy saving?!
It looks like a glitch in nature
What is that vortex?
There's enough room for people to ride it.
I learnt about r/dota2 from Dota 2
Oh, that's interesting, you create them yourself
Is 2,000-5,000 yen for editing 1,500 characters realistic?
Well, it is hot...   (This hasn't been confirmed to be recent photo)

Especially since Satoru Honma, who localised Divinity: Original Sin, has gone over to CD PROJEKT RED
Even if it's a herbivore, they will eat meat given the chance
On the other hand, I wonder why they didn't ever replace this type of character with a beautiful model up until now.
Something at the level of Final Fantasy would sell really well, even if it was only a port.
I'm using amatsukaze (had Shitaraba become a Japanese community?) , there's also GitHub, though
Who would it be if it was Japan, Yoshiharu Habu?
Gyoza dumplings nowadays are amazing
The true sovereignty of the people
The people pay taxes for their happiness and well-being and leave the politics to the politicians, who, in response to that trust, literally devote their life to the cause
The political sovereignty of the "Beautiful Country"
I like summer and hate winter, there's no difference?
Actually, they merely set up the community, nothing more
They don't understand the amount of contribution to the translations, so even if they don't value it they aren't able to criticize it
If they actually had good abilities in community management, then the worst thing to do is be a passive observer
There's no distinction between direct messages and chat, at some unknown point there was no managing ability
The appropriation of one person who arbitrarily decided to use the confidentiality as shield caused a translation community to collapse
That's the unmistakable truth
They should sell the Japanese version on another site, like good old MM
No!
I don't want to fall!
Aaargh
lol
I mean, there is a sampling bias.
Can someone at least reproduce it with 2chan and Nan-J.
Regarding Miyane, who harshly criticised not only holding it in Sapporo, but Sapporo as a place, is receiving a deluge of criticism from Hokkaido viewers and net users.
For instance, even Twitter was flooded with these sorts of comments.
It's not like Hokkaido or Sapporo made the decision, so why does Miyane have to go and say things like Tokyo has lots of famous places, but Hokkaido has nothing.
I'm watching Miyane, but why does he have to go and diss Sapporo like this? I'm so sorry there's nothing here!
I'm so sorry the nearest train station is far away!
Dissing Sapporo on TV, saying there's lots to talk about in Tokyo, but nothing to talk about in the countryside, he's making a mockery of the region, it's not like Sapporo was a candidate yet now we're the enemy, and now the beer garden I was looking forward to might not be able to take place thanks to the Olympics.
We didn't ask for it, it was pushed on us by the IOC's tyranny and Tokyo's incompetence, so why should Sapporo be criticised?
Each commentator should take a moment to look back and consider the unreasonableness of their comments.
That's right, there's nothing wrong with Sapporo!
What is bad is global warming, the way Tokyo lied to get the Olympics, and the IOC who suddenly decided to change the plans!
Miyane, who spits out complaints whilst aware of that, can go to hell!
Entertainers are people who live inside the TV.
Yeah, but they said they are still paying profits in advance
Saying we'll pay you if it sells would mean the risk is with you
Saying we'll pay you before it sells lets them know the online store will handle the risk
I think that's an appropriate way to interpret it
[To the person claiming to be one of the admins of the fan translation community]
I think you need to clarify what kind of contract was entered into when you provided the translation free of charge
[Spike Chunsoft]
It's reasonable for them to talk about the translation to the games media before screenshots of the game using the fan translation are released to the public.
However, I think they should apologise for causing the misunderstanding that the fan translation was plagiarised.
Their attitude got on my nerves, saying obvious things like that it would need revising.
[Larian Studios]
Who proposed the idea of using the fan translation?
Steam Workshop
Hey OP!
I'm gonna cum in your head!
I've heard that Chile is performing well in South America, and yet something like this still happens?
Economic management sure is difficult
It's available online.
I think she would fall into the "babe" category.
One woman works full-time 5 days a week and her monthly paycheck falls within the mid 100,000 yen range.
However, she says that the work system will come under review starting next spring, and her salary is likely to be reduced by 10,000 to 20,000 yen per month.
"The say that they will start paying a new year-end bonus, so the end result is that the annual salary will remain the same, but if my monthly salary decreases then I won't be able to make ends meet in my daily life.
Even though I'm doing the same job as a regular employee...
We're not robots that will work in whatever condition."
They're seeking slaves, not robots.
It's not like jobs at government offices can be replaced with robots or AI.
Well, that might be true, but that's not the point!
I mean, did they do a tasting comparison with the apples from other countries to the extent that they understood the difference in flavour?!
I mean, I guess it would still be alright if they wrote a review about a package that was delivered
That look on its face
Dropbox only has a small amount of storage space but is compatible with lots of services and devices, so it was handy for moving my files around like a USB stick, but now you can only have up to 3 devices connected to a free account it's like, "Oh, alright, bye then"
850kl
I wonder if the construction company did a bad job.
I'm less than average at sports, but I tried hard in junior high school, and I was so happy when my teacher gave me high marks
Even in r/pcgaming, it seems posts about Epic are clearly differentiated so you can tell they're about Epic Games, I think that's good
Was there a comment like that?
I've noticed that in games, they even check the comments closely, but I believe there's only one active mod here, so I think that would be difficult
From reading the article, I wonder if the additional content is going to mainly be past episodes.
My impression of Romancing Saga 3 was that although the world is big, there tends to be only a few scenarios and quests in each area, so rather than giving a complete set of all the past stuff, I'd wanted to see them add more quests in each area.
Red type, yellow type, green type, blue type
Modern-day humans the descendents of garbage
It doesn't matter how it's remembered, it's already an unmitigated disaster
It is necessary to insert that in an aquarium?
Impotent?
This is the kind of horsepower that future robot vacuum cleaners will need.
Well, I'm sure they have talent
Recently there have been a few times that slugs have come into my room
It's be great if Beat Saber came to arcades though
So it's designed to be easy to play, then.
Thanks for the details.
But even with games that I like, I don't usually come back round to them, and I tend to be forgetful, so for me, I think it might be worth waiting
Is there nothing from the '40s?
Because it says "rice bowl" I assumed they were going to slap it on, rice and all
Oh, so you were only joking when you said "no dirty jokes" then?
Since the pinned thread is now suspended, can you start a new thread please.
Curator's pages no longer have pagination and now have endless scrolling instead.
The announcements thread can now be seen from events in the sub forums.
Should have said, "You philistine".
I couldn't trust a gas-filled drive
I use a 2TB hard drive for network attached storage
She's cute and I find what she says interesting, so I've watched her streams a few times
But I got a bit sick of the fact that although it's obvious to anyone watching that she's affiliated with Sony, she continues to hide it
Whatever you think is best for you is fine
Baby goat headbutt!
If there were lots of temp jobs like this it would be a seller's market, if not it would be a buyer's market
It's difficult to judge whether the seat fillers were good or bad,
If they were blind they might have been able to get away with it
It's a manhole because the man goes in
It would be a problem if you got an illness from them and died, so I think I'd want them to get vaccinated, depending on the situation.
I'll listen if they say it's their opinion, but it infuriates me that they not only disagree without listening, it's like they're denying me as an individual.
And this is official, right?
Gross
Today, the party concerned will once again be questioned in front of the Ministry of Education's committee at the lower house, iIt would have been good if they had called on Yuichiro Anzai-kun as well (I think there was only one person there who addressed him as "sensei", so I used "kun" instead)
Even if stealing credit card data is bad, it's problematic because it's a bit of a grey zone whether it's okay to exchange the extra keys
Even though the Humble Bundle has the gift link function, trading keys is banned (even though there's not any kind of penalty, it's just that support don't do anything about trading)
The users claim that since it's their key they'll do what they like with it
Darksiders
Minecraft
Way of the Samurai
Recently, it seems like a trend to take games from completely different genres and turn them into top-down hack 'n' slashers.
I don't really see the appeal, to be honest.
For instance if it was a 2D dot picture that was made top-down, I could still understand the appeal, as it would change the appearance.
But with top-down games that look like this, it just looks like the freedom to move the viewpoint around has been lost when compared with the original game.
Well that's what would happen if they weren't an elite
Flushing potties......?
The EGS fund itself is a lazy fund, and if it's selling paid beta and paid debugging and not taking responsibility for them, of course they'll piss off the developers who make them with the community or those that make them seriously.
Well, it's like paying for tickets for soccer or basketball or baseball to watch them at stadiums, right?
If you want to watch it for free, there's internet streaming just like TV, so there's no need to be so pessimistic.
I'll think so if they sell extremely expensive tickets, though.
Kurumi-chan has many forms, but this one shouldn't come out. They're going to regret they did.
There must be a job chucking one-stars against rivals.
Thanks.
Yeah, I'd probably think it's spam for a second, too. I hesitated a bit, knowing that you've posted some after properly translating them, but I ended up posting before you since there were some interesting games.
But, maybe I should have left it to you...... This serial is great.
In convinience store food, I don't want to eat them because they're obviously unsanitary.
There's no way blocking flies and stuff.
It would be unauthorized alteration, unauthorized use, unauthorized secondary creation, disregard of moral rights, and violation of the right to maintain integrity......I think.
It should be against moral rights, at least.
Japan now is the same as the death row inmates from Baki.
The state saying "I haven't lost because I haven't admitted I've lost".
That's only fine since Yujiro isn't real, but if he were, he'd knock our heads off.
There are multiple.
There are multiple, but I confirmed "midori-kun age" and "ray-emon pinsir why".

The boonies up north can't leave a little ol' legacy-of-heart because they're inferior to holier-than-thou Tokyo?
That's true!
These images bring back the memories.
Well, I didn't expect them to have talks, but they're at least pretending to do something. Hilarious though, that Korea's already shaken.
You said it. For kicks, too(๑•̀ㅂ•́)

They've got to do something like an exclusive distribution of RDR2 for PC to get any attention.
"Amuro's final and ultimate machine"
"That rule-breaker that even destroys enemies with all sorts of settings in Super Robot Wars"
Moukoben was a superb tool to make fun of the damned far-right idiots.
So fun!
(You set your profile to public by yourself, silly......)
You're patronizing. Why don't you mind your own limit, hm?
To wake up, to commute, is so unbelievably chilling!
It's my first winter in Japan, but is it always already sooo cold?
This helps. Once I tried to rebuild kits in my home,  but there's always missing pieces. I can't sell incomplete kits at flea markets or anything, nor am I willing to bear the work and cost of ordering missing pieces. Some kids keep playing with them forever, but for the most part they're garbage when you reach a certain age. I pulled them out of my garage today so I really should box them.
> The ship, which was about to leave port, was loaded with over 60 tons of fuel oil.
Oil continues to leak from the hull.
You can't leave this hull like this, can you?
Since I'm an online right-winger, and before mentioning hate and what-not, your impressions of online right-wingers are blasphemous. You'd think we're both poor and rich, both for the system and against the system, and eating cheap pasta every day while indulging thanks to the system.
I believe that inconsistency is similar to how online right-wingers use the term "gook". So, it's just a label you stick on someone you dislike, and it's a slanderous word that's not related to any ideology or principle......a label for slander.
Don't you think that's hate speech?
It's just that it's not against race or religion.
I'm not saying it should be restricted.
Have you ever looked at yourselves objectively, and thought that you have become the exact thing you were criticizing?
That's what I am asking you to think.
I feel that the ones who keep calling people online right-wingers generally lack such thoughts.
I vaguely call the persistent callers "liberals", but if online right-wingers are pathetic weaklings, then liberals should have to protect them, but liberals have a gravely unliberal response (ritual?) of "meet intolerance with intolerance (so kill them)"
which they repeat over and over again like an idiot, so I'm convinced that there is no bright future ahead for this kind of liberals who only employ reason to hurt others.
For those who express their antithesis against the radicalization of liberalism as such, there's the label of a "cynical online right-winger".
I call myself an "cynical online right-winger" as an "anti-liberal", but when liberalism is with the system as it is now, and when antitheses such as "anti-establishment realism" or "post-liberal" and "anti-liberal" are roughly put together as "far-right", I can't help but reason that the term online right-winger is not defined.
So in the end, what does online right-winger mean, if it isn't slander?
I don't know.
I'm just calling myself that compliantly because I'm labeled that way.
The ones that call us that should do the definition.
I voted for Reiwa Shinsengumi in the proportional representation, by the way.
Before that I voted for the Japanese Communist Party.
Not because you persuaded me to do so, but of my own accord.
Still, I'm an online right-winger.
Tokyo to Sapporo, wow.
A fire on a government aircraft!
Who survived?
I'm reccomending them and buying them, but......
If I were born Chinese, I'd have been approved and popular just because I'm a woman. Argh, die Japan!
I thought I was going to die laughing when the sperm came flying from Manila
LDP and Komeito party are connected so deeply that just hearing about them makes me wonder about self-dealing.
I thought they might have interference, but then again, they don't have to be controlled separately.
Before: Not going to buy it because it'll be in the bundle.
> Japan only has a reactionary resistance to the formality and partisanship of protests.
More specifically, there are 40,000 people like the peasants in the Edo period who hope that the great Liberal Democratic Party MPs will reduce the working hours of the general public.
> The only known ways to unite (for capitalist propaganda and other reasons) are those that are currently not so popular (demonstrations, joining a political party).
Even if you blame the general public for the examples above, it's the fault of civic groups and left-wing parties that no improvement has occurred in this regard, isn't it?
The fact that what civic groups and left-wing political parties call "actions that are done and taken for granted in a democratic society and are indispensable to protect a democratic society" are going to change the nature of the movement (such as marching in the streets, shouting and marching with placards) in order to respond to the propaganda, public opinion induction and obstruction of capitalists and conservatives which, from their (such as left-wing political parties) point of view, is a damage to democracy, a social backwardness and an absolutely unacceptable defeatist action, yet that formalism has resulted in no increase in the number of people who participate or care about it, and they are complicit in not slowing down the destruction of society and democracy for the sake of formality.
Oh, the nostalgia.
I beat the game honestly using support magic and stuff, and it sucked.
>Formostly, building a healthy market and an internet environment is important.

Hm, I have no clue.
Really not watching TV. Weather forcasts and the news on the internet, nature programs on BBC on youtube, cooking recipies on foreigners' youtube.
What a price.
>All electricity was cut off except for mechanical security and the seven security cameras. But the fire was from the switchboard, right?
This is cosmically different from what I fantasized.
I'm so pathetic that I want to disappear from the internet...... I thought of retribution and what-not, but now that I realize how pathetic I am, my emotions have started to fade at last, and now I might be able to forget.
Ah, but I do want to have sex......
First I'll move out.
It's raining.
When yours truly was in junior high and high school, the climate wasn't this harsh.
At the time it was only thirty degrees celsius, give or take a few,even in mid-summer.
Winter wasn't so cold either.
It's suddenly getting weird in the last ten years or so.
They must be regretting not electing Bernie. How can dreams or freedom flourish in a country of pride?
It would be interesting if the two-party system would fall apart.
Belatedly playing Division1, but the UI and the system are hard to understand. Was there an explanation to begin with?
That's what I feel all the time, and it's so unworkable that I doubt that this was a blockbuster.
Plus, it takes so much time to boot even with an SSD, so once I quit I have to be determined to start again, and I can't pause because it's multiplayer by default.
My impression is that it's an awfully stressful game, before going into the pros and cons of the gameplay.
I was planning to only quickly beat the main missions in singleplayer, but it looks like I'll be leaving the game unfinished unless I get really determined and storm through it.
I read it again after decades, and was surprised to realize Meat-kun was wearing glasses......!
(Not that I remember whether I knew that or not.)
well there are both genders on the assaulters side so have them do 4-way sex and send that video to the former principal
Then I'll take the liberty ┼┼
Tippy's gonna cry for sure
I'd understand if there was luggage in the room that looked like trash after checkout, but messing with a staying guest's luggage is totally unacceptable.
You know, actually it's hard to enjoy bullying if you're not immoral.
My roommate just came home from hospital all shook up and shaking, so I don't feel like writing anymore.
It'll be dams, dams and dams from now on for de-nuclearization and low carbon.
>clinical trials (that provide scientific grounds) are costly
The article sounds like an elegy from someone who still likes their ex boyfriend and can't forget him.
The official translation of UNDERTALE prioritized comprehensibility, and had full of damn awful meaning translations with unique interpretations which ignored the original text and references. Yet I remember it wasn't so criticized, strangely, compared to you-know-which game.
mountain
The dog must have been so frightened too.
Their legs are broken, and the car starts moving.
>"Say sorry when you did something wrong." > That's what the teachers should be saying.
Search "halloween child molestation" ...... It's fiction, for now.
All is well.
Hyogo is not a region for children.
Screwing up at the beginning and doing a long maintenance is the first step towards being a blockbuster, or so I've heard?
We caused damage to the people who bought condos and booked restaurants, and because we regret this, we came to a non-consensual decision. → Incorrect  We tempted them to buy a condo or book a restaurant, and we reached a non-consensual decision to switch the subject matter so that we wouldn't be pursued. →
Honestly, don't. If Kagoike says this, then everything he'll say will be taken as conspiracist remarks.
People did this in elementary school. I kicked his heel inward when he was running and his foot got caught and he fell down with a crash.
Tried to activate but then it said "Could not activate product code due to an unexpected error
" and I was like, what the hell, but turns out the activation itself was successful.
> The Okinawa Police virtually concluded that the first floor was the origin of the fire.
They believe arson was improbable, and will investigate a possible electrical system faliure as a cause of the incident.
Arson is unforgivable for sure, but an electrical system faliure is, well, I don't know.
Seriously lol Everyone's saying it's cutting corners, domestic or foreign.
Soil, huh.
Probably not dangerous since it's heated, but still......
Thought it was unusual that there are Japanese subs in the trailer......Turns out that the devs were Japanese.
I didn't notice it was in the title. The music was lighter than I thought, reminds me of Silent Hill.

Teacher involved in bullying. Police officer member of fraud group.
Well, the whites in the rural areas fervently worship Trump, so he'll most likely be re-elected.
Male, female, neutral, gender unknown, effeminate, drag queen, seriously gay, trans, eunuch. No, I'm out of ideas.
Gecko junior "Y'know, I heard there's a warm spot around here." Gecko senior "Oh, right." Gecko junior "Why don't we go?" Gecko senior"I wanna go." Gecko junior "Right then, let's go in the night."
Another murder by a Japanese.
> In spite of the rule that the implementation guidelines must be shown two years before the event, the venue and the schedule have not yet been decided at five months before the event, which is a situation that will inevitably end in chaos.
The implementation guidelines weren't shown two years ago, which means it should have been postponed then, right?
A cohabitation of a grown man (victim of keyhole jamming) and a grown man (with good intentions)......
When Poppo (Yukio Hatoyama) says we've been in good terms, he means around the World Cup, I think. We'll have to keep ignoring the territorial disputes, but we can get along if politics don't come in the way. On citizenship level our values aren't so different, except for a few  things, and we're basically the same ethnicity (I bet I've angered someone).
if the stick was a dick this is suddenly an x-rated assault case
Crocodile "Wah little girl so strong"
Surgery is the only way to cure him.
Haven't watched the movies much but I got them anyway.
He's like saying "Ughhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!" at the end.

OK claimed it, thanks Epic. Diddn't buy much games at the summer sale though.
What is he, Shiki Tono? Joke aside, what a lust monster.
Probably can't play them due to region restriction, so this is for those who want them.
The former minister of education, you mean the guy who just got shady money and made them do it?

>Although the Ryukyu leaf turtle is subject to the Washington Convention, which regulates trade of wildlife, because it is traded at high prices on the black market both in Japan and abroad, poaching and theft continues in Okinawa, its habitat.
So they stole them from the zoo where they can capture them for sure?
That sucks!
Good for me.
The photo on the explanation page looks really snobby......
It should be, you know, a photo that has a feel of who-gives-a-shit.
There must be many people like, I've yet to play PoE and Tyranny that was given away at Twitch Prime and I have Borderlands I got for $15.
I thought I'd go BTA with the Steam version, but then, the PoE I got for free on Twitch Prime has all the DLCs included but this one doesn't so I'm not.
Watched the news and laughed.
Sorry to say this, but they don't have anything they can sell, or anything what will sell.
I remember how cheap Syberia 1 and 2 were sold.
But entering the Japanese market at the same timing as THQ, does that mean is there a Japan boom or something in the PC game industry?
Since when wasn't it run by Livedoor......
>There was no other wrestler who propagated among the fans the illusion that he was the strongest like Shinya Hashimoto.  As in the question, the focus was on "how he was able to make the fans believe he was the strongest", but that doesn't mean he was actually the strongest. If you watch Hashimoto's matches, the convincingness of the expression of his strength is outstanding compared to other wrestlers.
You tricked me!
Mosquito massacrer.
How can a man make a mode for women!
!
Karl Lagerfeld "Say what?"
But they don't have resistance to sleep attacks.
>"No one's richer than me" Declaration to f**k everyone wealthy?
Since they're making Japanese people write reviews, they probably don't understand what's written, so it might get interesting if you five-star but write long sarcastic text about them.
There's probably going to be quite a lot of text, too, from the look of the trailer.
The lineup was so shabby to begin with that you'd wonder if there was something else.

> Manufacturers who apply to sell on Steam must also release their games and localized versions on Steam when they first release them, and if they are already on sale (in other stores), they must also release them on Steam within 30 days of the effective date.
Moreover, submitting updates and localized versions to Steam must be no later than they are provided to other stores. I read the original text but I couldn't understand them so based on the translation, I reckon that even AAA titles like ACE COMBAT 7 and Monster Hunter World might have to follow the 30 days rule from now on.
I'm wondering to what extent the Devs and the Pubs can adhere to these terms, and whether Valve can check all the submissions.
Even if you make terms, if they are ignored or if there's no penalty, then it would be pointless.
"Don't boast about what you don't know, hm?
Not knowing is a disgrace".
Celeste is awesome.
You mean something like the open border agreement between the UK and Ireland?
China would be enraged if it included as far as Taiwan.
I see that often.
Lately it's all about foul or get fouled, and everything else is unimportant, I think.
A while ago I remember talking with an old American like "The rule used to be that you must not touch the opponent, but NBA......" "That's so true......"
Fried chicken not included in the kit.
Que sera sera. "Privatizing English examinations is just the tip of the iceberg.
It is also inexplicable that the minutes of the Ministry of Education's "Review and Preparation Group", which assembled to consider the entrance examination policy changes that made contractors so "profitable", have not been made public.
The media and the nongovernment parties should tackle the corruption behind the entrance exam reforms". I'm sure there are Souka Gakkai affiliates in this group that the Ministry of Education made.
And they're told to make Souka Gakkai affiliated companies profitable.
Which is why we have to impeach Komeito party.
Is vGundam unpopular?
How about writing about your life there?
The system is too complicated and it's not a game for beginners. Forneus (False Form) is unbeatable unless you prepare countermeasures for Maelstrom and Mad Thunder. Tech Spark Types are like, what the hell at the beginning.
Forgot it existed alerady.
I once went to a hospital with my parents to apologize to this bully. I stepped on his ribs and badly injured his face. It was to find out where he lives, and I had my dad help me.
His brother was the boss of the shoplifting group in my middle school and I told him if he was going to mess with my woman instead of sending my to juvie, I was going to set fire and kill all his family. The problem solved itself with that threat.
>The video game you might imagine... They're always writing it so pompously.
">Transferred via Larian Studio" I think this bit is important.
There's no basis for it, just that an idiot's delusion caused a huge sensation when it caught the attention of a ton of idiots. The terms just say that they have to submit it, and it doesn't say a single thing about having to sell it first at Steam.
Yes.
What's an airpu (know-it-all)?
lol As far as I've heard recieving the package seems to be really hard.
Has anything ever arrived properly before?
Because Shenmue did what it did, just the fleeting sight of Epic would distance sponsors, hence the declaration that they have nothing to do with them.
Not seeing black stockings at all because of the wide-leg trousers and long skirts in fashion.
Secretly put it up on Yahoo! Auctions, and maybe you might get a high bidding?
Codemasters giveaways tend to end distribution due to licencing problems, so it's better to have taken them. Well, they're being criticized in reviews about how they sell their latest game.
PE is rather less strict, club activities aside.
Oh, I've been waiting for this for so long. I see someone like Ludwig in the image with Khalid on it, but will he be involved in the main story......?
I was able to locate it, but I'm hesitant to post the link because store names and phone numbers are right there in the street view. I'll just say it's about 10 meters from the Nishimaiko police station in Tarumi. There was also a photo of the inside of the garage, and it seemed to be well organized, but was there an oversight in the wiring?
Because injections hurt.
It would be a lot better if they at least anesthetize the surface, but they don't even do that.
It only hurts when you put it in and take it out, and it doesn't hurt when the needle's in your body.
So if you could just make that pain go away, then injections won't be loathed any more.
Mama!
I don't know about the Steam version, but the Windows Store version (which you can play with Gamepass) can be changed to Japanese from Setting.
Schrödinger's underwear.
Haven't looked at the original tweets, but how they write them gives the impression that they were paid to do it.
So this is the new UI everyone's talking about.
From my experience of moving to reddit from 2ch, I'd say I can get used to these changes in 3 days.
( '-' )ノ)`-' )
Well, it's the cecum.
It's likely that there would be terrible lags in multiplayer, though.
>"From what I have been told, two female teachers who were at the center of the bullying were dismissed from disciplinary action.
The other two were apparently suspended.
But a six-month suspension is virtually saying "Please quit", suggesting that they retire.
It's most likely that all four of them will be removed from the school." And that isn't the end of it.
This is just administrative action.
There's still criminal trials and civil trials to go.
They'll be charged for assault, bodily injury, and damage to property, and what-not.
There's a big sum of compensation waiting for them in civil as well.
There's no helping them if they don't feel guilty at all, but nevertheless they have to pay for what they've done!
Eating bread on a government aircraft is so Western.
I guess the censored versions won't sell?
What, there's a scene where an underage girl is being raped?
If there isn't u got no right going on about the freedom of expression!
Saw the promotional video a few times, but not so sure if it's appealing as a game.
Do they want us to freely build cities, or do they want us to survive under limited resources?
SD Gundam G Generation on Steam too!
Mr. Cloth turned out to be tough.
Frogwares' games were just great up until Sherlock Holmes: Crimes and Punishments. Not going to touch on The Devil's Daughter becoming totally different and shitty, and as for The Sinking City being worse than shit because of the unpatched bugs?
It's not fake news, huh? Worried about fires.
Tried to make one with a swirly-eyed Snoo, but turns out you have to apply for an account to use original materials.
Because it's not for show, or so I want to believe, but it really baffles me that many Gundam related products are truly made of audacity and for show.
Anyone who'd buy it would be audacious too.
So bi and scat I guess
Not denying that per se, but sneakily recording is gross.
Unity Bundle is hot and Humble is rolling.
Drunk and uneager to work, expected something good on a new thread to find this baloney.
Freezing.
Used to be an anti-affiliate-blog curation site. Affiliate bloggers are far-rights, so being against them would make them anti-far-rights.
We can never win in space development anyway, so we should withdraw entirely and use it domestically.
Lapras used Double Team =͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞)===͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞( 'ω' =͟͟͞͞)
Maybe it would have been okay if it were 0N0 instead of ONO, and the stripes vertical?

>Frogwares commented that they may not be played upon its deletion from the store
Huh, seriously?
I've had it but haven't played it either, and I probably would have kept it that way all my life, but hearing this makes me like, wha-wha-wha-what am I gonna do?
Expenses to buy the game, microtransactions, and monthly fees to gain advantage in the game.
Really, it should have been one of the main tasks of a bureaucrat to make minutes. Japan today is like, people who were originally diligent, hardworking, and highly capable forced to become junkies and wrecks.
Haven't bought this so I don't know for sure, but I think it's unplayable because of region restriction, and the coupons only come with Humble Monthly.
(This was decades ago) I clearly remember a scene where there's this girl whose cassette tape with her favorite song in it became tangled up, and this cool boy who's taking correspondence courses says to her, "Turn here with a pencil to loosen up the tape, and then tighten it up again, and voila, it's back to life again".
And when I was in fifth grade I thought "No way even correspondence courses are gonna teach something that trivial". Also, thinking that it's great to fix machines for girls is dangerous.
I've become the handy PC guy thanks to that manga.
Not going to be popular.
Many makers just virtually kill themselves by screwing up with the pricing, so even confident KISS is risking it with lilith. For NEKO WORKs their sibling company is doing well but the original (Sumire) virtually regressed to a voice drama circle, and is so desperate that they started scamming patrons(same pattern for Lose too).
lilith's doing okay with its social games, but its recent works are lackluster. For players of Taimanin RPG the original would be baffling with all the gore, hence, this'll probably be a commercial faliure.
Needless to say, Kiss is on the verge with VR.
You know what they say, a fox isn't caught twice in the same snare. Too much NEKOPARA and NEKO-NIN exHeart clones.
