These can subsequently influence our therapy and thus our risk management.
Postoperatively, TTE has proved its worth as an examination method in the recovery room and in the intensive care unit to promptly diagnose life-threatening causes of circulatory depression.
Acute pathology such as a pericardial tamponade or fulminant pulmonary artery embolism can be detected quickly and thus possibly time-consuming transport to a CT can be avoided.
Also, preoperatively, the use of TTE may be useful for assessing volume status, pumping function, or hemodynamically relevant heart defects.
Especially in surgical interventions with a high perioperative risk of complications, these findings can be incorporated into a goal-directed therapy.
Corresponding algorithms for enhanced hemodynamic monitoring and volume management already exist in many areas, but they are often not consistently implemented in the processes of their own clinic.
In this article, we demonstrate the utility and relevance of TTE hemodynamic evaluation at every stage of patient care.
We also present a possible algorithm for the care of critically ill patients, based on the main transthoracic and hemodynamic measurements.
It is intended to provide assistance in the meaningful use of TTE in everyday clinical practice and especially for those on on-call duty.
A standardized questionnaire was sent to 191 general practitioners and school doctors to obtain information on the currently applied vision screening protocols for children.
Overall, 61 (91%) of the repliers confirmed that some sort of vision screening exists.
According to 45 (67%) repliers, a mandatory examination exists.
As to the question about the person performing the examination, multiple answers were given; 39 (44%) answered that the secretary or the medical practical assistant performs the vision tests, 15 (17%) indicated the school doctor, and 25 (28%) indicated the general practitioner or the pediatrician.
Most screening tests are performed in a general practitioner's practice (32; 40%), some are done in the kindergartens (17; 21%), and others are done in a pediatrician's practice (17; 21%).
Sixty-one (91%) of the repliers indicated that at least the children's visual acuity is measured.
Acuity is assessed with different methods, mainly, with pictures (20; 30%), numbers (23; 34%), and Snellen optotypes (33; 49%).
CONCLUSIONS
There are no consistent regulations regarding vision screening in the Canton of St. Gallen.
A standardization of the applied screening procedures at cantonal and national levels seems reasonable.
In addition to renal diseases, prerenal and postrenal conditions can induce azotemia.
The article provides an overview of the diagnosis and therapy of common causes of azotemia in rabbits and rodents.
The website "medical rehabilitation (Medizinische Reha)" at www.krankheitserfahrungen.de presents patients' experiences concerning medical rehabilitation and aims at supporting people in preparation for medical rehabilitation.
METHODS
Using purposeful sampling 38 former rehabilitation patients were selected. They took part in a guided narrative interview about their experiences concerning medical rehabilitation.
Interview transcripts were coded and systematically aggregated based on Grounded Theory.
RESULTS
Analysis revealed 8 categories of specific issues and subtopics. These topics are illustrated by original excerpts of the interviews as video, audio or text on the website.
Topics are the way to and daily routine in rehabilitation, therapies and other offers of the clinic, family, profession, profits of the rehabilitation, the time afterwards, messages and recommendations.
Patients mentioned obstacles and challenges as well as supporting experiences and advice.
CONCLUSION
The website provides free and barrier-free information about medical rehabilitation for prospective patients and professionals, exclusively focusing on patients' perspectives.
Due to the efficacy of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in the guideline-based treatment of therapy-resistant depressive episodes and the clinical significance of cognitive impairments, it is necessary to optimize the management of potential side effects.
In this review we present the clinical relevance and measurement of cognitive side effects that may occur during electroconvulsive therapy.
The individual characteristics of the patient as well as the technical and pharmacological parameters that influence the effect of ECT on cognition will be discussed.
Furthermore, the recommendations of national and international treatment guidelines for the monitoring of cognitive side effects will be summarized.
After ECT, impairments of global cognition, and anterograde as well as retrograde amnesia may occur.
While the first two side effects appear to be transient, the extent of retrograde amnesia, particularly for autobiographical information, is not yet well understood and may potentially be present for a longer period.
As 5-year survival after rectal cancer surgery has reached 80%, there is increasing interest in quality of life.
Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) is an overall measure of the postoperative functional disorder due to the surgical resection.
MATERIAL AND METHODS
A thorough review of the literature was undertaken to help to define LARS and develop an understanding of its pathophysiology, diagnosis, therapy, and prophylaxis.
RESULTS
LARS is observed after up to 80% of stoma sparing procedures performed for rectal carcinoma.
The capacity of the rectal remnant as well as intraoperative damage to neuronal structures seem to be the most important pathogenetic factors resulting in a substantial impairment of the quality of life.
Nevertheless, considerable work has to be done in the future not only to improve survival but also the quality of live after rectal carcinoma.
Augmentation with lithium is one of the treatment options in therapy-resistant depression.
This review presents the current data concerning the use of lithium in elderly patients with unipolar depression.
METHOD
Both the clinical trials and reviews report in favor of lithium augmentation in elderly patients.
Kidney damage, a feared side effect, is rarely seen.
Even over longer periods of use, lithium is effective; however, close monitoring under laboratory tests must be carried out.
CONCLUSION
Lithium represents an effective drug in the treatment of unipolar old age depression.
Haemostasis encompasses a set of strictly regulated actions, such as vasoconstriction, platelet activation and blood coagulation.
Endothelial cells play a crucial role in all of these processes and are an integral part of the vascular response to injury resulting in thrombus formation.
Healthy endothelium expresses mediators to prevent platelet activation, including prostacyclin and nitric oxide, and to inhibit coagulation, such as thrombomodulin or RNase1.
Upon activation, endothelial cells expose von Willebrand factor, integrins and other receptors to interact with activated platelets, erythrocytes and coagulation factors, respectively, resulting in blood clot formation.
The endothelial cell response to cytokines and growth factors released from activated platelets and immune cells abundantly present in arterial and venous thrombi also plays an important role for thrombus resolution, whereas failure to completely resolve thrombi may initiate fibrotic remodelling and chronic vascular occlusion both in the arterial and venous tree.
Therefore, endothelial cells are increasingly recognized as potential target to prevent thrombotic events and to accelerate thrombus resolution.
Here, we discuss recent publications from our group in the context of other studies on the role of the endothelium during acute and chronic thrombotic events.
METHOD
RESULTS
In 5.2% of cases an inpatient rehabilitation had been done before, but there was no indication for a renewal.
In 27% there was no rehabilitation in the past five years but now seen indicated.
In 13 out of 35 patients who got a recommendation for a new psychosomatic rehabilitation, this rehabilitation was initiated within 6 months after the consult.
CONCLUSION
High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) allows noninvasive heating of deep-seated tissues.
METHODS
Peer-reviewed publications on MR-HIFU were studied and are summarized in this review.
Literature was restricted to applications in oncology.
RESULTS
For the treatment of breast cancer and malignancies within abdominal organs, MR-HIFU has been applied so far only in proof of concept studies.
CONCLUSION
MR-HIFU is currently being investigated for the ablative treatment of malignant tissue in a variety of oncological applications.
For example, the transrectal as well as transurethral ablation of prostate cancer using MR-HIFU was shown to be a patient-friendly, safe alternative to other local treatment options with low side effects.
KEY POINTS
· MR guidance offers high soft tissue contrast for treatment planning, near-real-time temperature monitoring, and post-interventional therapy evaluation..
It is reported that most psychosomatic hospitals have waiting times, but there are no studies on data on that.
Therefore, it was the aim of this study to access prospectively in a defined region, how long it takes for the patients to get an outpatient preliminary talk and thereafter, how long they have to wait for their admission.
METHODS
7 hospitals out of the region of South-Württemberg took part on this study, 2 of them had bigger day hospitals.
Data were assessed prospectively in 2015 over 9 months, in total 916 admissions were assessed.
Patients who waited for a day treatment had to wait even longer.
An urgency remark, given by the therapist of the preliminary talk, as well as a private illness insurance led to shorter waiting times.
The diagnosis had no influence on the waiting time.
CONCLUSIONS
The waiting times are substantial and imply a burden for the patient and also for the health care system.
It is recommended to assess and publish these waiting times on a regularly basis.
Politics, but also the actors in the health care system should discuss if and how this deficit can be changed.
METHODS
Ophthalmic examin ation (including tear film break-up time [TFBUT] and meibometry) was undertaken on three groups (pugs with and without ophthalmologic abnormalities as well as on other brachycephalic breeds with history of ophthalmologic abnormalities).
Histology of eyelid tissue obtained during medial canthoplasty was performed, using hematoxylin-eosin and oil-red-O-staining.
RESULTS
Seventy-eight pugs and 11 brachycephalic dogs were included. Mean ages were 3.54 and 5.5 years respectively.
STT 1 values below 15 mm/min were found in 12 of 150 eyes of pugs and in three of 18 eyes of other brachycephalic dogs.
Tear film break-up time values below 20 seconds were determined in 118 of 126 eyes of pugs, and in eight of 18 eyes of other brachycephalic dogs.
Eyelid tissue of 21 pugs and 11 brachycephalic dogs was obtained. All pugs had a higher number of inflammatory cells in eyelid tissue than other brachycephalic breeds.
CONCLUSIONS
Young pugs are often presented with STT 1 values within the reference range and low TFBUT and meibometry values.
As other brachycephalic breeds are often presented with STT 1 values within reference ranges as well as low TFBUT values, the only marked difference between pugs and other brachycephalic breeds are low meibometry values and the higher number of inflammatory cells in the medial canthal lid margins.
Cardiovascular and especially thrombotic diseases remain a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.
In past years, significant improvements in understanding disease processes, risk assessment, and prediction of clinical outcome in the field of thrombosis and haemostasis have been made by using large-scale biodatabases.
These important research resources enable a comprehensive research approach by integrating clinical, environmental, genomic, and molecular information.
Cutting edge, high throughput technologies open new data dimensions for clinical large-scale investigations.
Joining multiple information levels from several pathophysiological pathways in contrast to a single marker approach might better model the complexity of disease pathogenesis.
This review focuses on the possibilities that ultimately allow conducting wide-scale analyses for unravelling the multifaceted interplay between coagulation and cellular (e.g., platelets) elements in the development of thrombotic disease.
It further provides examples for the use of biodatabases in the field of venous thromboembolism, explores the links between venous and arterial thrombotic diseases, and finally informs on the current use of platelet biomarkers in the thrombosis and haemostasis field.
Antiviral treatment options include topical ganciclovir or systemic valganciclovir.
However, recurrences are common after stopping treatment.
We evaluated the efficacy of long-term topical ganciclovir therapy as prophylaxis for recurrent activity.
METHODS AND PATIENTS
Retrospective analysis of all CMV uveitis patients seen between 2011 and 2018 at Zurich University Hospital.
Inclusion criteria were suspected viral anterior uveitis and a positive CMV polymerase chain reaction of the anterior chamber (AC) tap.
After diagnosis, topical therapy with ganciclovir gel 5 × daily was started and tapered according to clinical activity.
Topical steroids and glaucoma medication were used according to clinical assessment.
An active episode was defined as increase in AC inflammatory activity and/or a uveitis-related rise in intraocular pressure (IOP) greater than 25 mmHg. Episodes were analysed before and after initiation of ganciclovir therapy.
RESULTS
Six patients, median age 51 (range 24 - 62) years old, were included.
All patients had hypertensive unilateral anterior uveitis and presented with small to medium sized endothelial precipitates and with 0.5+ to 2+ AC cells.
Median IOP in the affected eye at initial presentation was 43 mmHg (range 36 - 60).
Median follow-up time after initiation of ganciclovir medication was 26 (range 4 to 62) months. Median number of episodes under treatment was 1 (range 0 - 6), corresponding to a mean of 0.19 episodes per year (p = 0.04, 2-sided paired t-test).
The median (range) for the individually chosen long-term prophylactic dose was ganciclovir gel 2 (0 - 4) times daily, and topical steroids 1 (0 - 2) times daily. Lower doses lead to recurrences in 3 patients (50%).
Glaucoma and cataract surgery were performed in 2 patients (33%).
CONCLUSION
Although a rare entity in Central Europe, the important feature of CMV uveitis is its hypertensive and recurrent nature.
In our cases, topical ganciclovir was found to be an effective treatment.
Larger studies assessing long-term prophylaxis are desirable.
The relationship between (pathological) Internet use and sleep problems in adolescence was investigated by a representative longitudinal survey of data from a sample of 1,060 students from Heidelberg and the surrounding area (SEYLE study).
The students, on average 15 years old, responded at a baseline and after one year to a survey on sleep and Internet use.
In addition to the number of hours of Internet use, pathological Internet use was assessed using the Young Diagnostic Questionnaire (YDQ).
Sleep duration and sleep problems were surveyed by self-assessment.
The prevalence of adolescents with pathological Internet use was 3.71 % in the follow-up survey. Furthermore, 20.48 % of adolescents reported sleep problems.
Pathological and excessive Internet use were predictors of sleep problems over the course of one year.
Adolescents who met the criteria for Internet addiction to the baseline had a 3.6 times greater risk of developing sleep problems in the course of one year.
Whereas sleep problems to the baseline increased the YDQ symptoms only by 0.22. Sleep problems often occur as a result of pathological Internet use and could have an addiction-enhancing effect as well as mediating further psychiatric comorbidities.
Thus, sleep problems should be targeted for early intervention and therapeutic measures.
The coexistence of child abuse and a bleeding disorder must always be considered.
An extended coagulation diagnostic is required if the morphology of bleedings is not clearly suspicious for child abuse and in the absence of typical concomitant injuries, e.g., bone fractures.
An interdisciplinary approach involving a forensic pathologist and a paediatric haemostaseologist for assessment of bleeding symptoms, the explanation of the clinical findings, and the critical evaluation of laboratory results are essential in such cases.
This review is focussed on symptoms in accidental and nonaccidental injuries in children assisting haemostaseologists in decision making in cases of child protection issues.
In a course of the Train-the-Trainer (TTT) concept of the Surgical Working Group for Teaching, teachers (TN) from different medical professions and career levels were taught together.
AIM OF THE WORK
Assessments of teaching activities in everyday clinical practice of residents (AÄ), senior staff (OÄ) and nurses (KP), their perception of teaching obstacles and requirements to improve teaching.
MATERIAL AND METHODS
Upon completion, the participants were asked to rate the course.
The answers to the closed and open questions were evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively.
RESULTS
From 2014 to 2017, six basic courses (TTT-A) were conducted at three locations.
97 participants participated in the surveys (AÄ n = 44, OÄ n = 19, KP n = 17).
More than two-thirds declared previously acquired teaching knowledge.
There were no significant differences between medical and nursing staff.
While AÄ and KP primarily taught at the bedside, OÄ taught mainly in the context of lectures, electives and seminars.
Only a small proportion of all occupational groups felt well prepared for teaching in everyday clinical practice.
The main drawbacks were lack of time and staff, too many students per group and too little teaching knowledge.
Nearly two-thirds of the AÄ found teaching in general as a strong or moderate burden, compared to about 50% of the OÄ and 60% KP. Aspirations for improvement of teaching included more precise characterisation of the learning objectives, greater appreciation of teaching as a whole, and regular measures to make teaching professional.
DISCUSSION
Occupational group-related differences in everyday clinical practice and individual career progression, impact type, implementation and perception of the teaching activity.
By focusing on learning objectives and essential teaching methods and examination formats relevant to teaching at the bedside, teacher training programs across professional groups can contribute to knowledge and expertise growth.
Indications of a sustainable effect encourage the continuation and further development of the TTT concept.
We report an interesting case of a central nervous system vasculitis, presenting with a relapsing remitting nature and a previously unreported profile of cognitive deficits in this variant of the disease.
The patient presented with bilateral headache, left eye upper temporal quarter visual field loss, dyschromatopsia and a transient loss of consciousness.
He was previously evaluated for similar set of symptoms over the past eight years.
There was a clear relapsing-remitting history, with periods of full remission of 4-6 months.
MR studies showed bilateral areas of hyperintensities, representative of small "non-characteristic" changes, likely of a vascular origin.
The case discusses clinical conundra during the patient's evaluation, examines possible differential diagnoses and comments on the hypothesised role of statin use in similar cases.
This results not only in a burden for the child, but regularly also for the parents, who in their need for help, often seek the advice of the attending physician.
The child- and adolescent-specific questionnaire BEARS, which was developed by J. Owens and K. Mindell, allows the first diagnostic steps and classifications based on the most important symptoms such as bedtime problems, excessive daytime sleepiness, waking up at night, problems with regularity and sleep duration as well as nocturnal breathing disorders.
The aim of this article is to show that important conclusions can be drawn in the everyday practice as to which symptoms need to be clarified how and how urgently, and which belong in the hands of a specialized sleep center.
BACKGROUND
Good trunk stability is an important prerequisite for the mobility of the upper and lower limbs during sport-specific movements.
Therefore, trunk muscle strength may represent an important performance determinant for judo-specific movements.
This study aimed at evaluating statistical correlations between trunk muscle strength and kinetic parameters during judo-specific pulling movements in judo players.
METHOD
Twenty-one male sub-elite judo players aged 22 ± 4 years with a mean training volume of 15 ± 4 hours per week participated in this study.
Peak isokinetic torque (PIT) of the trunk flexors (PITFlex), extensors (PITEx) and rotators (PITRot) was tested using an isokinetic dynamometer (IsoMed 2000).
Regarding pulling movements while standing, significant correlations (0.62 ≤ r P ≤ 0.72) were found between isokinetic tests (PITFlex, PITEx, PITRot) and mechanical work during judo-specific movement.
Further, significant correlations (0.59 ≤ r P ≤ 0.65) were detected between isokinetic tests (PITEx, PITRot) and judo-specific pulling movements (Fmax).
Regarding pulling movements with a change of position, significant correlations (0.47 ≤ r P ≤ 0.88) were observed between isokinetics (PITFlex, PITEx, PITRot) and the kinetic pulling parameters (W, Fmax), irrespective of the examined arm.
No significant differences in magnitude of correlation coefficients were found between PIT of the trunk flexors, extensors, and rotators and judo-specific movements.
Further, the regression analysis indicated that PIT of the trunk extensors is the single best predictor for mechanical work during pulling movements while standing (46.9 %). Trunk rotator PIT is the single best predictor for mechanical work during pulling movements with a change of position (69.4 %).
CONCLUSIONS
Findings from this study indicate that trunk muscle strength, particularly trunk rotator PIT is associated with kinetic pulling variables during pulling movements with a change of position.
This implies that the development of trunk rotator strength could have an impact on pulling movements with a change of position (i. e. Morote-seoi-nage) in judo athletes.
METHODS
RESULTS
50 cases of PAVSD were diagnosed prenatally.
44.0 % of fetuses had isolated PAVSD, 4.0 % had associated cardiac anomalies, 10.0 % had extra-cardiac anomalies, 38.0 % had chromosomal anomalies, 4.0 % had non-chromosomal syndromes.
Among the 32 liveborn children, 56.3 % had reverse flow in the patent arterial duct, 25.0 % had major aortopulmonary collateral arteries (MAPCAs) with ductal agenesis and 18.7 % had a double supply.
17 pregnancies were terminated (34.0 %), there was 1 intrauterine fetal death (2.0 %), 1 neonatal death (2.0 %), and 6 deaths (12.0 %) in infancy.
25 of 30 (83.3 %) liveborn children with an intention to treat were alive at the latest follow-up.
The mean follow-up among survivors was 10.0 years (range 6.5 - 15.1).
56.0 % of infants underwent staged repair, 44.0 % had one-stage complete repair.
After exclusion of infants with additional chromosomal or syndromal anomalies, 88.9 % were healthy, and 11.1 % had mild limitations.
The presence of MAPCAs did not differ significantly between survivors and non-survivors (p = 0.360), between one-stage or staged repair (p = 0.656) and healthy and impaired infants (p = 0.319).
CONCLUSION
MAPCAs did not influence prognosis or postoperative health.
The incidence of repeat interventions due to recurrent stenoses is significantly higher after staged compared with single-stage repair.
Moreover, performance data of sows in two different alternative farrowing pens and in the conventional crate were compared under practical conditions.
MATERIAL AND METHODS
Over the trial period (April 2016 - February 2017), production data from a total of 113 sows in two alternative farrowing pens ("Petra" [P] and "Freya" [F]) and in the conventional crate (K) were recorded.
In behavioural observations of 103 sows and their piglets, the lying down behaviour of the sows according to defined parameters for a "careful" lying down behaviour and the activity behaviour of the piglets were documented.
Furthermore, each crushing event of piglets was analysed.
RESULTS
There were no significant differences in production performance between the three different farrowing systems.
The majority of crushing events occurred in the farrowing pens while crating.
Sows in the two alternative farrowing pens showed a more careful lying down behaviour than sows in the crate.
A significantly higher activity of the piglets in pen F could be shown in comparison with pens K and P throughout the entire observation period (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE
According to the results, a reduction of the fixation in the crate and a greater space affects the behaviour of the sows in a positive manner.
Moreover, a positive influence of the alternative farrowing pens on the piglets' behaviour could be demonstrated.
On the basis of the production data recorded in this study, fixation of the sows over the entire suckling period to avoid piglet losses is not necessary and this practice cannot be justified regarding animal welfare.
Since its introduction for retinal imaging in the early 1990s, optical coherence tomography (OCT) has undergone rapid development and has revolutionised ophthalmology.
Although OCT was initially used mainly for the examination of the retina, numerous systems for the assessment of the anterior segment of the eye have now been developed.
OCT is based on the detection and processing of the light back-scattered and back-reflected by the tissue, and provides completely new possibilities for the ophthalmologist to examine the structures of the anterior eye segment.
Depending on the technical implementation, OCT systems for the anterior eye allow precise measurement of individual layers of the cornea and the chamber angle or - in the form of ultrahigh resolution OCT - the detailed visualisation of corneal morphology with near histological resolution.
Through further technical developments, especially with respect to an increase in acquisition speeds, OCT has become an essential tool in the differential diagnosis and follow-up of various diseases of the cornea and might also provide new insights into their pathophysiology.
The objective of this study was a comparative analysis of cement augmentation by means of RFS and CSP with regard to outcome and cost-effectiveness.
PATIENTS AND METHODS
Costs incurred for carrying out the procedure were compared with the respective reimbursements received.
RESULTS
Both procedures were technically fully feasible.
No leakages were found in the RFS group, as opposed to 8.1% asymptomatic leakages in the CSP group.
The mean value for pain before intervention was 8.8 in the RFS group and 8.7 in the CSP group.
On the second postoperative day, there was a significant pain reduction with a value of 2.4 for both groups, which remained more or less constant over the follow-up period.
The Barthel index increased significantly from an average of 30 before the intervention to 80 on the fourth postoperative day and 70 after 24 months.
No differences were found between the two procedures with regard to pain, improvement in functional status and satisfaction.
Taking into account the state-wide base rate used for calculating reimbursement, 3,834.75 € remained for RFS and 5,084.32 € for CSP.
CONCLUSION
RFS and CSP are minimally invasive procedures that achieve equally good and sustained pain reduction, leading to markedly improved self-sufficiency of the patients.
With regard to possible cement leakages, RFS is the safer method.
A profit can be generated with both techniques.
There are various radiation protection means for protecting medical staff against scatter radiation.
This article will provide an overview of the different protection devices, their efficacy in terms of radiation protection and the corresponding dosimetry.
METHOD
The following key words were used to search the literature: radiation protection, eye lens dose, radiation exposure in interventional radiology, cataract, cancer risk, dosimetry in interventional radiology, radiation dosimetry.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION
Radiation protection and monitoring of the head and neck, especially of the eye lenses, is not yet sufficiently accepted and further development is needed in this field.
KEY POINTS
CITATION FORMAT
· König AM, Etzel R, Thomas RP et al.
Personal Radiation Protection and Corresponding Dosimetry in Interventional Radiology: An Overview and Future Developments.
Fortschr Röntgenstr 2019; DOI: 10.1055/a-0800-0113.
This narrative review gives a broad summary of the psychosocial strain in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and psychotherapeutic interventions addressing these issues.
ALS is a fatal, rapidly progressing neurodegenerative disease, which leads to weakness and atrophy in almost all muscles of the body, resulting in impairment and finally inability in all domains of daily life including mobility, food intake, respiration or communication.
Due to the severe symptomatology and poor diagnosis, ALS can lead to significant psychosocial strain including heightened levels of depressive and anxious symptomatology, hopelessness and even the wish for hastened death.
A large body of research demonstrates the strong effect of psychosocial aspects on quality of life (QoL) in ALS patients.
Nevertheless, research on psychotherapeutic interventions for patients with ALS is very sparse to date.
Besides the general lack of interventions and the methodological limitations in testing their efficacy, few of these therapeutic concepts incorporate the palliative character and the specific symptomatology of the disease such as impaired communication or problems with emotion control.
Future research could aim to adapt therapy programs that already have been proven to be effective in other populations with advanced diseases.
Such research should also test the applicability of the therapy models using alternative communication including computer with a voice synthesizer or brain-computer-interfaces.
MATERIAL AND METHODS
This historical multicentre cohort study included singleton pregnancies at term.
Labour induction for SGA/IUGR (IUGR group) was compared with cases of fetal growth beyond the 10th percentile (control group).
Primary outcome measure was caesarean section rate.
RESULTS
The caesarean section rate was not different between the 2 groups (27.0 vs. 26.2%, p=0.9154).
In the IUGR group, abnormal CTG was more common (30.8 vs. 21.9%, p=0.0214), and fetal blood analyses were conducted more often (2.5 vs. 0.5%, p=0.0261).
There were more postpartum transfers to the NICU in the IUGR group (40.0 vs. 12.8%, p<0.0001), too.
CONCLUSION
Induction of labour for fetal growth restriction was not associated with an increased rate of caesarean section.
A non-ketotic hyperglycaemia may cause an affection of basalganglia and, in the following, lead to a hemiballism-hemichorea movement-disorder.
HISTORY
A 68-year-old male patient was admitted at our ward with a subacute and painless hemichorea-hemiballism movement-disorder.
FINDINGS AND DIAGNOSIS
THERAPY AND COURSE
CONCLUSIONS
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are comprised of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Both diseases are diagnosed with increasing frequency over the last few decades in industrialized countries.
Current, population-based data from Switzerland show a prevalence of 0.4 % for IBD in Switzerland (one affected person in 250 inhabitants) with equal shares for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (one affected person in 500 inhabitants each).
The mortality rate of Swiss IBD patients is comparable with the one of patients without IBD.
Roughly 80 % of patients with IBD suffer from co-morbidities.
The most frequent co-morbidities concern cardiovascular diseases, followed by rheumatologic conditions, acid-related disorders, pain, and psychologic disorders.
Therefore, urologists must have a high level of communication skills in this context.
Previous research has shown migrants to have a poorer health status than those without a migration background in many respects.
So far, it is not completely clear whether the poorer health results of migrants are mainly the cause of their socioeconomic status (SES), which on average is lower than the SES of people without a migration background.
The present study explores the question whether the fact of having a migration background has an impact on health, even though SES and health-related behavior are taken into account.
METHODS
Based on data from the current Austrian Health Interview Survey (ATHIS 2014) multiple linear regression models, adjusted for age and stratified by gender, were conducted. The dependent variables were physical quality of life, psychological quality ofZ life, self-perceived health, body-mass-index (BMI), headaches/musculoskeletal pain, and diabetes/cardiovascular diseases (n=15,748).
RESULTS
We found differences in health between men and women with migration background and men and women without migration background. After adjusting for age, SES and health-related behavior, almost all of the revealed differences got smaller.
The strongest link between migrant status and health status was detected for migrants from countries with a lower Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index (IHDI) in comparison to Austria.
CONCLUSION
The results lead to the conclusion that although SES and health-related behavior do not fully explain health differences between people with migration background and those without, they can explain the differences to a large extent.
However, for the health status of migrants who stem from countries with a lower standard of living and a weaker distributive justice in comparison to Austria, further factors might play a role.
With respect to this group of migrants, differences in health compared to non-migrants are not solely attributable to SES and health-related behavior.
Various factors are involved in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and ethanol-mediated carcinogenesis.
In addition to genetic, epigenetic and immunologic mechanisms, acetaldehyde-associated toxicity, oxidative stress as well as cytokine-mediated inflammation are of major importance.
Oxidative stress, with the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), develops either in inflammation (alcoholic hepatitis) or during oxidation of ethanol via cytochrome P4502E1 (CYP2E1).
CYP2E1 is induced by ethanol, oxidizes ethanol to acetaldehyde, and generates ROS during this process.
ROS results in protein damage, enhanced fibrogenesis and DNA lesions.
Furthermore, CYP2E1 induction results in an enhanced activation of various procarcinogens and an increased degradation of retinol and retinoic acid (RA), a compound responsible for cell differentiation and proliferation.
An inhibition of CYP2E1 results in an improvement of ALD and chemically induced carcinogenesis in animal experiments.
In humans, CYP2E1 is induced following the consumption of 40 grams of ethanol per day after one week. However, the induction varies inter-individually.
The mechanism for this is still unclear.
Patients with ALD show a significant correlation between CYP2E1, the occurrence of highly carcinogenic etheno DNA adducts and the severity of fibrosis.
First results on the effect of CYP2E1 inhibition by chlormethiazole, a specific CYP2E1 inhibitor on ALD, can be expected soon.
A recent survey among plastic surgery residents and directors of microsurgical clinics demonstrates a great interest in high- quality microsurgery education.
Unfortunately, due to economic pressures, limited operating resources as well as forensic considerations, it has become a challenge to provide sufficient on-the-job training, which needs to be shifted outside of the OR.
Each day, at least three surgical procedures were performed simultaneously in the area of breast, nerve, bone/hand, extremity and lymph reconstruction, along with presentations regarding the various cases, diseases and specific operative challenges.
To evaluate this course concept, we asked participants to identify their expectations and evaluate the academy and its program.
RESULTS
The academy and its goals were demonstrated.
In a second step, the evaluation, conducted by 79 % of participants, was presented.
All participants considered microsurgery to be part of their future work spectrum, with the greatest fields of interest being extremity reconstruction (90 %) or microsurgical reconstruction of the hand (80 %). All participants would recommend the course to their colleagues, but suggest improving the intraoperative video monitoring.
DISCUSSION
In particular, the close contact between senior and junior surgeons was considered highly relevant for building a network within German microsurgery.
The overall goal of the academy is to improve teaching and increase the enthusiasm of future microsurgeons and provide a network for German microsurgeons during their training and beyond.
MATERIAL AND METHODS
Based on radiographs of 143 rabbits, visibility, size, shape and density of the uterus, nutritional status of the animal and possible metastasis in other organs were examined.
A suspected diagnosis was deduced.
The radiological findings were compared with the results of the histopathological examination.
RESULTS
Among 13 of the 143 uteri that were not visible in the radiograph four were altered pathologically.
Visualising the uterus proved impossible in two of four skinny rabbits (2.8 %), whereas in all 39 obese rabbits the uterus was visible.
Only in one of the four skinny rabbits was the uterus without pathological findings and six of the 39 obese rabbits showed no pathological alteration, visibility notwithstanding.
Calcification indicated a tumourous occurrence in 23 of 53 cases.
In 20 of the 44 patients with uterine neoplasia no calcification was seen.
Changes in uterine size occurred in 118 of the 143 rabbits (82.5 %) and alteration of the uterine shape in 109 of the 143 rabbits (67.1 %).
CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE
Congenital ear deformities occur in 5 % of all newborns.
PATIENTS AND METHODS
This prospective study included 19 newborns.
The following ear deformities were treated: cup ear, lop ear, steel ear, helical rim abnormalities, antihelical rim abnormalities.
The results of the EarWell™ system were reevaluated two years after the procedure.
Two independent examiners evaluated the clinical results on the basis of preand postprocedural pictures.
In addition, the following parameters were evaluated: time of application, complications, satisfaction of parents, cost comparison between the EarWell™ system and otoplasty.
RESULTS
In all, 32 ears were treated with the EarWell™ system.
63 % were male and 37 % female.
The system was placed in the first three weeks of life.
The average treatment time was 12-28 days.
The rate of complications was 1.3 %. The clinical results were rated as follows: 23 % very satisfactory, 35 % fully satisfactory, 30 % satisfactory, 3 % less satisfactory and 9 % not satisfactory.
95 % of the parents would use the EarWell™ system again.
The costs of the EarWell™ system are EUR 660, those of otoplasty EUR 2826.
CONCLUSION
Ear deformities are easily treated with the EarWell™ system during the first weeks of life.
It reduces the need for surgical correction at a later age and prevents children from further stress.
Another advantage is the low costs compared with the costs of otoplasty.
However, due to ever-decreasing sizes of incisions and trocars, injection and removal of highly viscous silicone oils is very time-consuming.
To address resulting problems like longer treatment times or hypotony, thixotropic silicone oils were developed.
These oils are characterized by a diminished viscosity under constant mechanical stress; whilst there is pressure or vacuum acting on it, the oils will become more fluid and, therefore, much easier to be applied.
Besides minimally invasive surgical techniques, there are a number of anaesthesiological aspects like the choice of short acting anaesthetics, the use of regional analgesia, a balanced intraoperative fluid therapy, the avoidance of postoperative nausea and vomiting and, most importantly, protective ventilation, that need to be considered.
In patients undergoing thoracic surgery procedures with preexisting severe limitations in pulmonary function, protective ventilation under the conditions of one lung ventilation often leads to severe dysfunction of pulmonary gas exchange.
In this situation, establishing veno-venous membrane oxygenation (vvECMO) is a sufficient and safe method to facilitate perioperative treatment of these patients.
To avoid bleeding complications, ECMO can be operated without anticoagulation intraoperatively with heparin-coating of the tube system.
Postoperatively, heparin, argatroban or bivalirudin are options for anticoagulation.
New techniques like minimally-invasive thoracic surgery under regional anaesthesia and sedation can potentially be developed further using vvECMO support in the future.
An inverted uterus is defined as the eversion of the uterus into the vagina.
This can lead to hypovolemic shock and circulatory failure.
Therapy includes urgent uterine repositioning under narcosis and curettage after manual abruption of the placenta.
We report the case of a 39 year-old gravida III, para III in the 36+3 gestational week who, after a spontaneous breech delivery with placenta accreta, experienced an inverted uterus, which was then repositioned.
Low molecular weight heparins and fondaparinux have been the cornerstones for prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in acutely ill medical patients for almost two decades.
Guidelines recommend the use of these parenteral anticoagulants for 6 to 14 days but advise against extended-duration thromboprophylaxis after hospital discharge because no compelling scientific evidence has been provided for pharmacological prophylaxis beyond hospital stay.
Five large randomized clinical trials, one with low molecular weight heparin and four with nonvitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants, have failed to show significant clinically relevant benefit in this indication.
Obviously, the development of VTE is more complex in medical patients than in patients undergoing major surgical procedures.
Thus, it can be expected that guideline recommendations for VTE prevention with low molecular weight heparins or fondaparinux in medical patients will remain unchanged in 2019.
Osteoarthritis (OA) affects a significant number of the world's adult population.
In recent years different causal approaches to treat OA based on new translational knowledge have been developed. This review article provides, a brief overview of new findings on the pathophysiology and genetics and the interplay between biomechanics, pain and body weight.
Current pharmacological and reconstructive surgical treatment options as well as studies on novel regenerative and molecular therapies of OA, such as applying NGF, FGF-18, TNF-α, Wnt signaling pathway inhibitors, and TGF-β1 gene therapy are discussed.
Based on the biopsychosocial model the severity of the disease is affected by the combination of physiological processes, social aspects and psychological factors.
While treatment approaches mainly focused on the reduction of gut complaints by dietary means or medication, psychotherapy is becoming an alternative or additional approach with very good evidence, especially in light of associated psychiatric comorbidities (e. g. depression, anxiety disorder).
Often psychiatric symptoms/comorbidities increase the probability of a complicated course of the disease with a reciprocal interaction of gut complaints and psychiatric symptoms.
Behavioral therapy, psychodynamic psychotherapy, hypnotherapy, mindfulness interventions and other psychotherapeutic methods are used to increase coping as well as disease control and to restructure dysregulated cognitive processes.
The current review focuses on psychosocial aspects of the irritable bowel syndrome and discusses the benefit of psychotherapeutic interventions.
METHODS
The experiences and perspectives of experts from different healthcare sectors were explored within 39 semi-structured individual interviews.
Subsequently, the results gathered in the course of the individual interviews were discussed within 2 inter-professional focus groups.
RESULTS
Structural issues in particular impair the access to inpatient rehabilitation of methamphetamine dependents.
This includes impeded access to rehabilitation via general practitioners, rare implementation of seamless transitions, capacity problems as well as non-transparent procedures in terms of treatment facility allocations.
CONCLUSION
Nevertheless, there are indications that justify artificial hydration and others that rather forbid it.
In case of uncertainty about hydration, there is the option for a limited trial of therapy.
Subcutaneous application is the preferred way of hydration.
