Please take your shoes off outside.
So what, I’m ready.
The Internet consists of many computers which are connected to each other.
Uranus is the seventh planet in our solar system.
Overall, the sound is a bit bass-heavy.
How is the current traffic situation?
Why do you want to go to Bergheim?
I would have not let you pass.
Especially no potholders.
The audience loudly demands an encore.
The registrar was a strange bird.
My favorite color is black, said Lola.
Keep making fun if it.
The clock is showing the wrong time.
But as it shows right now, the topic is more current than ever.
The data protection is guaranteed.
Oh my gosh!
Help me.
The beam is atomized into smallest particles.
The matter has a catch though.
When did you last change the oil?
No clue.
The drain should be shut, so that the smell from the sewer system does not enter the apartment.
Yeah well, there's nothing you can do!
The assassination was planned poorly.
Do we still have enough resources?
Mr. Rahn has curly/kinky hair.
There are lockers in the changing rooms.
Have you booked your ticket to Görlitz already?
But Rebecca will be happy!
Staying in contact with other people reduces the risk of developing dementia.
The young policewoman gave the impression that she still had to prove herself to her older colleagues.
You’re always using some idioms I don't know all the time.
Still dressed in his bathrobe, he shuffled over to the fridge and grabbed a yogurt.
You can just do it with a sharp knife.
This sight attracted many curious individuals.
I don't trust them to be that deep.
I’ve lost my appetite.
A whale stranded.
It is regrettable how many children are allowed to only carry LED lanterns during the lantern walk
The reaction between white phosphorous and oxygen is powerfully exothermic.
Leonie and Paul argue about who gets to go on the rocking horse first.
Would this be a suitable coding or not?
Anna, do you know where Charlotte is?
Do we still have noodles?
The city of Aachen already distributes preventative iodine tablets.
Constantinople was the capital of the Byzantine Empire.
She has to accomplish.
London, Birmingham and Manchester are the biggest cities in England.
How stupid can you get?
Do you have another spare?
She was so touched by the song that she started crying.
I don't forward chain letters on principle.
If it doesn't fit, use a bigger hammer.
That is why it shoots more.
Conakry is the capital of Guinea.
There are hardly any traces of usage visible.
Hogwash!, disagreed Elke.
Linda leads a double life.
How does a tree pump the water from the ground to its leaves?
Show all.
The new anti-terrorism law is just another infringement on our basic rights.
The river marks the border.
Why, what’s swell indeed!
Describe the process again in your own words.
Shortly after the robbers had left the bank, the police were informed.
Alwin, Nadja and Andrea are playing hide and seek.
Is that not possible without the black thick bars?
The thermoplastics are being heated, shaped, and cooled down again.
Version numbers don't mean anything these days.
Instead it’s about the development of medications or therapies.
Acupuncture doesn’t work if you don’t believe in it.
That saves on crockery.
‘‘What a phony!’’ Horst thought to himself.
She would decide whether or not to come depending on others.
Grandma sat in a rocker and knitted a sweater.
In the short but turbulent company history things have gone very up and down.
He had him in a headlock.
Don’t annoy me.
I brought some cheese.
A win would put her on top of the list.
For that reason, I’d just put on this protective cover and leave it.
“You wouldn’t,” I protested, but it was already too late.
This laser is so strong that it can be used to cut metal.
Many citizens in the east are not affiliated with any religion.
The highway exit to Kempten.
How dangerous are e-cigarettes?
Look for trains to Düsseldorf.
With cruise control it always gets so boring that I don’t properly pay attention.
You should enunciate the questions cleverly, so that they are going to be answered with a yes.
Uwe is getting the flap.
He couldn’t afford the trip to Cologne.
Tanking near the train station is expensive.
We could use leg-up to get over the wall.
Everybody thought it, but nobody dared to speak their mind.
The cashier cannot find the barcode.
They climb cautiously through the roof hatch.
He pulled a HDMI to DVI adapter from his backpack.
My aquarium needs cleaning again.
Even if customers go on my nerves, I have to stay polite.
Instead you can also use rapeseed oil or sunflower oil.
It is missing that certain something.
It may contain traces of celery.
The Elbe flows through Dresden, Magdeburg and Hamburg and flows into the North sea.
In the end it’s different.
On Friday, management wants to balance the books.
Go away from the coach, you lazy dog!
There is a separate stop at the race course.
So, lets climb up higher.
Everyone has to pull in the same direction.
Where did you get my number from?
When the radio message arrived, a commotion broke out in the headquarters.
After the desensitization, she was able to deal well with her hay fever.
Where the hell are we?
New Delhi is the capital of India.
In fact it was more of a monologue.
Increase the temperature in the living room by two degrees Celsius.
Do you think that is funny?
Why weren’t you at my funeral?
Thank god I still made the curve.
It is written in four digits which are divided by points.
So late in the day, most students are not open to new information anymore.
The bisector divides the angular field into two congruent parts.
Yes, Glenn gets cold easily.
Britta does not want to go to the upcoming family party.
A cat’s eye broke on my right pedal.
Call Andreas.
How long does it take to go by bike from Regensburg to Ludwigsburg?
I haven’t been here for years.
Climbing has a lot do with overcoming anxiety.
The four engine strokes are intake, compression, combustion and exhaust.
But there’s always a risk of blood loss during operations like that.
Old diesel engines had to be preheated with a gas burner or similar stuff if they did not start by themselves.
When cooked right, even Kohlrabi tastes delicious.
Display settings
Crossing the bridge was free of charge.
Have you always wanted your computer to do exactly what you want?
The rash is always on the right of mouth on the cheek.
Can I sit on your lap?
In winter, gas stations sell winter diesel.
We live in Bochum, but we have a holiday home in Sauerland, and we spend a lot of time there.
Horst und Ingo interchangeably read the prayers.
Let me through, I am a doctor!
Greetings from Bernhard!
A tanker ran aground eleven miles off the coast.
In her free time Mandy plays saxophone.
The free bridge was built by rich citizens.
That's what matters.
This is a classic case of how greed devours the brain.
Somehow he cannot get into his shoes.
Still looking for a suitable present?
Who needs a seat heater in this weather?
How long will the laundry machine still run?
In the TV show Löwenzahn, it was shown how you can build a pinhole camera with a shoebox.
Something’s got to change fundamentally.
More economic growth usually goes along with more resource consumption.
If you look with the telescope to the west, you can see it.
Let me explain, what it is, and especially, what it isn’t.
I think we should also take about the success of the recent years.
I have to take the DVD back to the video shop till Thursday.
For reasons of noise prevention, a bank was raised next to the arterial road.
The following program is not suitable for viewers under the age of sixteen.
Puberty is when parents become difficult.
Why is the telephone not placed at the charging station?
The sails are set.
As a construction material, gold is relatively worthless.
When he checked his watch, Jan realized that he had wasted half an hour reading the comments.
The pacific is the biggest ocean in the world.
Because of how rotten the trunk is, I would rather not use it to carry loads.
I'll borrow a bike from the hotel, she said.
To have a barbecue you need ketchup or barbecue sauce.
Whether you eat both separately or together does not matter.
Who is the class representative again?
But now don't go into shock.
Yes, I’m coming!
You steer it with a double paddle.
We have an issue with OSI-shift eight.
Mr. Lurch exposed his face.
Only Carmen thinks this is unfair.
Tehran is the capital of Iran.
Carbohydrates are better than their reputation.
We are alone here.
You’re stupid if you know something but don’t act accordingly in spite of knowing better.
I don’t hear anything.
How can one protect himself?
With a warm drink in the tummy the cold can be better withstood.
The antivirus software ran amok and shut down every computer in the house.
The Canary Islands is part of Spain.
Scientists have so far only observed this mutation in women.
Siegfried sits on a park bench, leafing through a newspaper
Follow the hyperlink.
Easter is always one week after the first full-moon in spring.
You can take a bus to Frankfurt an der Oder.
I don’t care.
The dish washer is ready.
That’s better.
What about flex time?
Have you ever been to this club?
Where there is smoke, there is fire.
On the stake with this heretic!
Better than nothing.
A bilious green soup is bubbling in the boiler.
Why are you doing this to yourself?
I don’t really want to have to be in contact with him.
So the forty-one-year-old underwent the retraining today.
She merely traced the testimony back to her original core.
When is the sunrise in Fürth?
Ernie and Bert are best friends, but very different.
Did you know, that on Valentines day most of the relationships break apart?
The offspring comes blind to the world.
Our cat was not hungry but instead only wanted to play with the mouse.
I’m somewhat doubtful.
An air condition was a pure luxury for Marco.
Do you know how cheap tooth paste is?
The Atlantic Ocean is also called the Atlantic.
It’s possible to quickly repair the damage to the fabric.
The System would not run without the geostationary satellites.
Mercedes is actually a female name.
Gaborone is the capital of Botswana.
In any case, I can not complain about bad compensation.
It depends on the ingredients.
His speech can only be titled as cynic.
Circular saws and drills should never be operated with gloves.
I don’t think the wall is supposed to be painted like this.
Emil lives on Usedomer Street.
Paris is the capital of France.
The Atlantic ocean covers about one fifth of the earth’s surface.
I cannot stand this bitch fight any longer, the father screamed.
I don’t even want to know what’s going on in his mental cinema.
Do we have any icing sugar in stock?
Johanna lies flat with a gastrointestinal disease.
Bloody hell, just what I always needed.
And slow like that until the English Channel.
Then I can hang up the washing now.
The Doppler Effect is most noticeable when an ambulance drives past you blasting its siren.
As a child I always wanted to be an adult.
The prospects are bleak.
The dog is buried in Goldbach.
The company is worried about its reputation.
Is this obvious or do we need an explanation?
“This can’t be a permanent situation,” the moderator clarified in front of a live camera.
Can you follow me halfway?
There’s nothing to embellish.
The sauna area is textile free.
Damaskus is the capital of Syria.
What is on TV this evening?
Abu Dhabi is the capital of the United Arab Emirates.
The train came thirteen minutes late.
Is there a tram in Mainz?
Dear God, a monster!
Can I buy here a ticket to Bonn?
What do we have in the pantry?
You're late.
The database was updated.
Maseru is the capital of Lesotho.
Many of the old buildings still exist to this day.
Be nice to one another.
We need an unique feature.
Noodles boil over very quickly.
Volcanic eruptions can cripple air traffic.
It smells heavenly.
It’s not been that long.
At the end of the tracks, there’s a buffer stop.
The maintenance intervals were always observed.
Zagreb is the capital of Croatia.
The lightsaber has been confiscated.
Tearing eyes and make-up are not a good combination.
Because the employee is actually the one who gives work.
You can push-start a manual car.
Not even ion engines come close in terms of efficiency.
What’s on at the movies today?
My husband speaks Swabian German.
Can you creme my back?
You could say he’s suicidal.
No, thank you, I am vegan.
You’re not allowed to eat any food before a colonoscopy.
Let’s leave out the kinetic components at first.
How old are you?
What sort of amateur set the table today?
Do you know the music video for this song?
Our cherry tree is infected by parasites.
Is Wolfsburg far from here?
When Peter drives his car through Hessen, he usually listens to the radio program hr-three.
Can you do that?
Hannelore eats no more Nutella anymore because it entails palm oil.
As you can see, you can see nothing.
Shake vigorously before opening!
Cock-a-doodle-doo!
What kind of apparatus is this?
Yes, I have understood.
Play the hologram again.
The gas station attendant looked shaggy and had visible dark rings under his eyes.
The voice sounds like the voice of our former data protection officer.
Your energy determines your work performance.
“Don’t we want to try a piece of Sacher tarte if we are already in Vienna?”, suggested Toni.
Ken is a bad guy.
The countdown is going.
Veronika expects the club to clearly distance itself from him.
The tram was erroneously guided to the depot including all its passengers.
Am I allowed to sit on your luggage rack?
Stop that!
That serves him right, because he was on of the predators.
The completion of the billion dollar project was extended yet again.
My balance has expired.
Stockholm is the capital of Sweden.
The dose turns it into poison.
Ask Friedrich if he cannot fix it.
I would like to order that on Amazon.
But I don’t!
What about Saturday?
It’s clear that the moon is responsible for the tides.
You cannot plan anything.
After almost all the indigenous people were displaced, the government agreed to pay reparations to the remaining hundred members.
Ferdinand wants to propose to Xenia.
You do that in strict compliance with the rules.
Well, are you making plans for the world domination again?
Since then he only had food combining.
Some drivers still don’t understand how zip merging works.
The route leads past the old bunker.
There is curfew from ten PM to seven AM.
‘Do I need an umbrella today?’, asked Theodora her digital assistant.
Some fools threw Chinese firecrackers into the crowd.
Mr. Peters wants a no-frills car.
But it should be possible to recognize which language it is.
There is no plan B.
How do all the paparazzi get here?
Who authorized the operation?
Good that I have not thrown away the receipt, he told himself happily.
Do you give me a ride for your test ride?
Some girls take the pill against acne.
Looking for flights to Munich.
She still does not have to stand down.
Kanada has one more party in its bones.
It was to be expected, that someone would mess it up.
Is there snow in Weimar?
He collected data which he then analyzed.
Search for trains to Nuremberg.
What time is it?
Never before had Reinhold experienced that music can trigger such emotions.
Can we talk privately for a minute?
You need more sucking power for carpet than for laminate.
Neither Sydney nor Melbourne are the capital of Australia.
Anyone who finds irony gets to keep it.
There’s still room for desert, right?
We want to give those a vice who cannot speak themselves.
Nils went to the commode and took out fresh underwear.
Who searches, will find.
Out of a single lemon you can not squeeze a lot of juice.
Let me guess!
Am I human?
Do you feel comfortable in your new home?
You have to use this moment to break away.
He carefully padded it with cotton.
The agent retreated to not draw any attention.
Do I appear in a novel?
About ten percent.
Belgrade is the capital of Serbia.
Rabat is the capital of Morocco.
The big breakthrough is still to come.
Apparently, one decided that the situation was over and done.
Hence, the position of the submarine could be deduced relatively well.
I've carried that name since forty years.
When there is poor reception the connection can break.
Are we there soon?, Susi asked her parents.
That was an order, it was not something to be discussed.
And we take it quite seriously: not the woman beside him either.
Yamoussoukro is the capital of the Ivory Coast.
A bird that is unable to fly is exposed to predators, such as birds.
I am doubting, that this law is acknowledged in accordance with the constitution in Karlsruhe.
Suddenly someone held a gun to my temple.
Such a nitpicker.
I have to go to the butcher quickly.
What kind of perfume do you use?
Tino plays bass in a band.
I can understand the skepticism.
Field C summarizes the control groups, among them the airports.
Do not push too hard.
The female jogger blinked at me.
The flight captain shifted from autopilot to manual control.
The step has been a long time coming.
The performance remembered one more of a folk band.
If he doesn’t fix some things, work supervision will give him an enema tomorrow.
There is traffic jam on the highway A-drei from Wurzburg to Nürnberg.
Song number five hundred and thirty two is particularly good for singing in a round.
Driving in winter weather with summer tires can result in fines.
During acceleration, blue smoke comes out of the exhaust.
In order to do so, you wear a full body suit with lots of electrodes sewn into it.
Basseterre is the capital of St. Kitts und Nevis.
Shortly after arrival at the port, the marine pilot comes aboard.
At least four new messages.
When you mix red and yellow, you get orange.
May all your wishes come true.
You could have said that a little earlier.
I don’t try to escape.
You can say you to me.
How do we find our way out of this maze?
"I don't know how to turn on the rear fog light” , Hanna admitted.
If you put the plates directly in the sink, ninety percent of the dirt are already removed before the actual dish washing begins.
Remember everything.
At some point, it’s not worth it to haggle, because time is money.
Modern compilers ignore this anyway.
Or that shepherds must be milked for the production of shepherd cheese.
Roses are not bought because of their beauty, but because of their symbolic character.
Is it foggy in Nürnberg?
Most of the time the table is in the basement.
To relieve the load on the web server, one should consider downloading via BitTorrent.
The travel guide for Florence is specifically warning one to not jump into haystacks from a big height.
To hell with him!
Well, then let us quickly make up something.
Maximum performance is achieved through use of a lightly fatty mixture.
Lots of tourists have to admit they are overcharged with the ticket system.
The director’s behavior is scandalous.
The difference is clear to see.
Like that it is neither one thing nor another.
Start the program.
We witness a precipitation.
Thank you, that is very thoughtful of you.
Rounded corners are not an innovation.
Lies have short legs.
Adam takes a notebook out of his backpack and takes some notes.
The next scandal is already beginning.
The early bird can kiss my ass.
In former times the nightlife was busy here.
In a press conference, his manager told the bitter news to the public.
This mistake happened during my last try.
The way is not sprinkled.
Also during examinations, unnecessary discussions should be avoided at all costs.
Or were they werewolves perhaps?
Gelsenkirchen is far away from Nuremberg.
Why are rainbows colorful?
The bangs are still too long, she said critically.
Here the rabbit is saying goodnight to the hedgehog.
Let’s go bum some sausages.
That would have never happened back in the days.
She is complaining about the pain in her heel.
Her choice of words was completely unsuitable.
After two bottles it is over.
Can you please turn off the subtitles?
Pull yourself together!
Is there a keyboard combination for this?
What about your service uniform?
The offer is only available for a short time.
Have you heard from them principle of data economy yet?
When the slats are that dusty, the cooling will decrease.
If you have to get doping for training, it is for sure to strict.
Vegetarians eat the poor animals’ food.
In case of fever and other common symptoms, you should keep tick bites in the back of your mind.
Navigate through the menu with the arrow keys.
Let’s go through everything once more.
Really?
An unwanted rolling back is prevented this way.
She is noting the information silently.
Delicate goods make their way from the Aldi shopping cart to the muffin top.
Electric window lifter only work when the igniter is on.
Don’t be a bad role model.
A karate fighter never applies the same trick twice.
Please do not leave your luggage unattended.
Traditionally, the Nile is considered to be the longest river in the world.
Fish feces is used as a fertilizer for plants.
The inflationary use of superlatives pisses me off, Till complains.
You hit the target!
I do not have you in my data bank, she said.
Let us take the ever-popular example of the harmonic oscillator.
The double helix is an essential component for life as we know it.
But you know him.
How old do you think I am?
All other rely on that.
That is utter idiocy.
Are we there yet?
Neptune is the god of the sea.
I’m only familiar with swordfish from children’s books.
I would love to take Bernhardiner straight from the animal shelter.
Renate considers the notion utopic.
Check Wikipedia!
She only now realized how valuable the gift Henrik gave her had been.
Once you have nearsightedness, you cannot get rid of it.
Actually the project derived from boredom.
All for a good cause.
Better the sparrow in his hand than the dove on the roof.
If you want to leave quickly, go alone.
Did you book your ticket to Cottbus yet?
Often only the text of the German press agency is being used.
The release was not approved yet.
There are only two options.
A concave mirror focuses the sunlight on a small kettle.
This blow of fate was a turning point in her life.
It was unnecessarily repeated.
During hiccups the diaphragm twitches uncontrollably.
Before that we want to cover the bread with poisonous arsenic.
Stefanie wanted to make us a gnocchi casserole.
Rules like women and children first are also no longer up to date.
We need to talk.
Steffen appears to be flexible.
The responsible persons reject all accusations.
The criteria of the academy need to be reexamined.
Is she healthy again?
May we use a collection of formulas?, Meike spoke up.
Never thought I’d live to see the day.
Omit that.
Larissa would choose all of them if she could.
If you cannot answer this question, I do not have to ask the others to you.
Where else?
When does one have to take the idiot test?
Bevor you crack open a new one, finish the old package first.
The fracture can be traced back to normal material fatigue.
Should i cook rice pudding again today?
Mission failed!
The products of mass livestock farming are tasty, but they bring many problems with them.
In calmness there is power.
That was more than brave.
The body can create Vitamin D under the sunlight.
Regine just lacks tact.
Ice and slipperiness are expected, so drive very carefully.
Franziska cannot write at the moment, as her wrist hurts.
UHT milk just tastes disgusting.
I only leased the BMW, but I own the VW.
Replay the hologram one more time.
He completely messed up the free kick.
It makes it that much worse that no one realized the mistake before today.
That is a well known tactic.
Looking for restaurants.
We need a VGA-cable for the projector.
There's a dry spell ahead of them.
This is a very clichéd student bike.
Klaas dressed up as an Astronaut.
Accra is the capital of Ghana.
Sucre is the capital of Bolivia.
Ramallah is the capital of Palestine.
A wall box is used for the quick charge of electric car.
At some airlines, the luggage has to be paid extra.
The moon’s pull creates the tides.
Some ants can differentiate between different polarizations of light.
He prefers to remain mum when it comes to payment practice.
That’s what it is in legalese.
In the past, cranking broke some drivers’ thumbs.
The cylinder head gasket probably leaks.
Strike now while these things are this cheap!
Some things do not belong in the public.
This neighborhood used to be super trendy.
But that only happens in extremely high temperatures.
Till Eulenspiegel died in Mölln.
If we're already at Lake Constance, let's take a ride in the Zeppelin.
Do you go by car to Göttingen?
Have you all been behaving yourself?
Bodo thinks e-guitar is much cooler.
Parents go to prison for their children.
The variable bitrate always causes loss of synchronization between the audio and the subtitles.
That is how it is.
What's the tactic here?
That hit home.
We are twins.
I have a new job.
What does camera one see at the moment?
We went to the opera the day before yesterday.
Legally, there is a difference between a tax and a submission.
Smacking his lips, he devoured the whole serving in minutes.
Bridgetown is the capital of Barbados.
Islamabad is the capital of Pakistan
Barcelona is the second largest city in Spain.
The subway runs partially on the middle lane of the highway.
Mario wants to change the blades of the lawnmower.
There are countless amounts of possible arrangements on a chessboard.
Gerhard has been living in exile in South America for seventeen years.
That is what the Commission has decided.
The concept is good, we still have to work on the realization.
Enter at your own risk!
Show me all the articles in your shopping basket.
Torn shirts’ destiny is to be worn in winter, when you have something else over them anyway.
That’s the same day as Halloween.
Such a bean counter!
It is hiding a message of the artist.
LEDs may be more recent but they’re not much more efficient than sodium vapor lamps.
What should that bring?
Harald never gets tired of stressing that humans were actually on the moon.
Let’s assume the worst.
Wacken Festival drowned in mud this year but for some, that’s part of the game by now.
You're a fool, too.
In terms of syntax and spelling, your work leaves a lot to be desired.
It looks pretty spooky when turn your eyeball that far.
In desperation, the castaways sent a few prayers to the heavens.
Good night, everybody!
No matter what comes, we won’t retreat.
How long does it take to take the train from Worms to Emden?
Remember this as new workplace.
Foreigners are led to believe that Germany only exists of Bavaria.
Not everything that hobbles is a comparison.
We’re in the middle of the desert.
Steady, steady, yelled Maren.
Cosmetics are as much useless as ads, because they are a form of advertisement too.
Evil always wins in the end.
What is on TV?
The stars are shining especially bright this night.
It is still always interesting to talk to people who are completely different from yourself.
It is a repeatedly spoken memory protocol.
Let’s us ask about it at the tourist information center.
They keep the secret like the apple of their own eye.
Lomé is the capital of Togo.
Over hundred cameras are catching everything in the stadium.
We need more playgrounds and sports facilities.
Thereby a multifold higher voltage is induced in the secondary.
And what makes you so sure?
Melanie recorded every single step in the laboratory with meticulous accuracy.
At some point we have to tell him that he is adopted.
It doesn't help to sweep the problems under the carpet.
Of course we insisted on security glass.
I don’t feel so good.
Stubbles can come in really handy when one needs to scratch themselves.
My dog likes to bark.
The idea is brilliant.
How much is the way to Koblenz?
This is how we lay the foundation for future innovations.
When they dive, golden eagles can reach speeds of up to 300 kilometers per hour.
The answer is clear.
I have to think about this in quiet.
I want to thank my supervisors for giving constructive feedback constantly.
A medication against the natural death would come close to a mediocre catastrophe.
This is a total unpractical bed.
Madagascar has a wonderful soundtrack, which is barely highlighted in the film, unfortunately.
There was a humorous performance during the cabaret of what a partition like that might look like.
Do not worry, nothing can happen.
With his brown coat the man was difficult to see in the traffic.
We fundamentally differentiate between indirect and inductive reasoning.
“Wait for us!”, Christoph shouted.
I'm out of ammunition!
There you always have to relearn.
A campaign should discredit him so no one believes him anymore.
Those who radiate dissatisfaction are unattractive to others.
You need to complete three disciplines when it comes to track and field sports.
The online business is now our strongest horse.
Come on, don’t bend my ear.
Heinz lifted an eye brow.
Or that stars are maintained at the observatory.
You can infer a lot of things from context.
The rag was already so oil-soaked that everything you wiped away with it only got dirtier.
The biggest points of conflicts remain unresolved.
But, actually, what for?
Will you build a sand castle with me?
Order this.
The cream has to be whisked until it’s stiff.
I don't know how to say this without hurting him.
The weather god has not blessed us.
The dogs bark in our neighborhood every evening.
Rosa is working for a market research institute and makes telephone surveys.
Jens, come to the blackboard.
In the end everything will be sprinkled with cheese.
Ariane applied for a job in a patisserie.
But psst, it’s a secret.
What’s on TV tonight?
Share this song with Johanna via email.
The egg shell is hard while the inner is sticky.
One can often see seals on the sandbank using binoculars.
Light on!
The graffiti makes the noise barrier neither more beautiful nor uglier.
After Leo inhaled helium, he sounded like an alien.
Unfortunately, the algorithm doesn’t scale well with the number of CPU cores.
The prisoners cannot escape.
Politics become more complicated because of those citizen who don’t understand them.
Mrs. Hoppe feels exhausted and therefore allows herself to be given a massage.
Order now.
I’m going to count to three.
Now we have reached the point where it is no longer viable.
Alkohol hinders fat-burning.
As I see, you have tried to call me.
Monaco is the capital of Monaco.
The color charge also has an external effect, however.
The valence shell of an atom has an impact on its chemical properties.
I want to go to Lübeck
Katja has been engrossed in the book since the early morning and hasn’t even eaten anything.
The tunnel construction is subsidized by the federal government with one hundred million euros.
You don’t dare anyway.
Tanja is now guiding also the back training on Wednesday.
Viktor, do you know abgeordnetenwatch?
From a semantic point of view this is obviously bullshit, but the syntax is correct.
Is he also from Leverkusen?
Your timing's pretty bad.
But the rumor spread in no time at all.
Many complain about gaining weight afterwords.
Before 10:30, all visitors get a discount.
Don’t let it provoke you.
Sort the results alphabetically.
“A package” is not an appropriate measurement if one gives away a recipe.
Jennifer took a seat and crossed her legs.
“You have to decide on one” Edith announced.
We can also buy that in Wiesbaden.
The shape of the frame can also be adjusted afterwords, explains the optician.
But you understand the logic, right?
Who can type so quickly, must be a dangerous hacker.
We should keep caffeine-free drinks ready for Mrs. Möller.
You’re drooling.
Guys, I’m going to bolt.
The salesperson scribbled something on the device that someone held out to him.
When you're lying down, you might slip under your seat belt in a collision.
The accident could not be avoided anymore.
My doctor says, I’m not supposed to do exercise yet.
And now we’ll do the same thing again, Dagmar instructed the group.
We work hand in hand with them.
Good luck with that!
That would be like a six right in the lottery.
Need is the mother of invention.
Originally given the job due to a lack of competition, Lydia turned out to be a real gem.
That's how it is in the countryside.
I think the creature is evil.
Thanks to the discount, the monthly ticket is even cheaper for those in need.
In the end, they agree to a compromise.
On Saturdays we often go shopping with the whole family.
Mosquito bites should not be scratched open.
Is the connection safe?
The rats leave the drowning ship.
That was probably a Freudian slip.
On the timetable, it said we were going to have a substitute, but it was essentially a free hour.
At the same time, the brain enabled the planned procurement of food.
If you shoot off fireworks on New Year’s Eve, you also have to clean up the mess on New Year’s Day.
We’re in the middle of Uckermark here.
We ran out of grit.
As soon as the docent turns to the blackboard, the babbling starts.
Show the snow report for Wagrain.
Do we already know who the victim is?
The seam didn’t turn out well.
It took Thorsten’s breath away.
I paid my taxes yesterday.
Please use the formal you still!
One cannot bottle everything up.
From the coastal city, they road further inland.
Maple leaves are easy to recognize.
Close Mozilla Firefox.
In some districts I get lost every time.
And I have to flip the tape again.
You mean locusts and mealworms?
Greenland is the largest island on the earth.
Today, operations are commonplace that were previously unthinkable.
There isn’t free parking anywhere.
If that was not a false start, then I don’t know.
It may seem a bit old-fashioned, but it works.
Is Wiesbaden close to here?
That is not one though because it lacks the predicate, the know-it-all corrects me.
Angelica's hiding something from us.
You could do a lot of damage with that.
Felix is also behaving like a brute.
Prices for tickets from the “Verkehrsverbund” are never known by the app of the train.
The seat of the Malaysian government is in Putrajaya.
Two hundred years after its establishment, the town was accorded the right to mint coins.
Buenos Aires is the capital of Argentina.
Do cows sleep standing or do they lay down?
I warned Mr. Knolle to keep his word.
Explore the chamber for more clues.
Everything is good to go for the next test series.
South America has always had an issue with corruption.
Birgit is still editing the picture.
You have all sorts of possibilities!
A lot of fruits are being harvested immature and then mature during the transport.
Do you have to suck those drops again?
Social work is capitalized.
No one wants to play the roll of the klutz.
Is the garage door open?
One of the six cylinders can't get a ignition spark.
Lilongwe is the capital of Malawi.
With broad shoulders you profit more from the tailwind.
Vague formulations like these are certainly a guarantee for non-existent problem awareness.
Now it's your turn.
She feels weak.
Nils, do you want to go deaf, why are you listening to your music so loudly?
She puts nuts, pretzel sticks and other things to nibble on the table.
I admit, that wasn’t phrased very well.
More bad than good.
Before a colonoscopy, you have to take laxatives.
Add as a stopover on the route.
This is genuine Lübeck Marzipan.
I can refer interested listeners to my colleagues at the Fachhochschule.
The whole audience claps along, unfortunately out of time.
Go away!
“Christine has a much bigger pool”, tells Marie.
If you don't eat your spinach, there will be no dessert for you.
The lighting is too bright for me.
We came across a group of goths who came fro the grave yard.
Heinrich says he wants to become a news anchor.
I’ll be right there!
Marion got the position through vitamin B.
Why do we dream?
When the scammer tried the grandchild trick with my grandmother, she responded in exactly the right way.
The ratio is wrong, Astrid decided.
It snowed!
Even in the Common-Voice-Project, it’s: Every voice counts.
If you are bored you can go in the garden and pick some blackcurrants.
Resistance is futile.
I think your friend has a screw loose somewhere.
Panic broke out because of an unattended purse, and the train station got evacuated,
The doctor diagnosed it as a bladder infection.
He does his job without asking questions.
Because Ilse doesn’t want to be recognized, her voice was distorted technically.
Is that how it is supposed to be?
The priest walked to the lectern and read verses from the Bible.
The train to Wolfsburg already left at quarter to four.
The company has its headquarters in Mannheim.
Fluor is the lightest of all halogens
Honey variants differ in the ratio of fructose to glucose.
Can you catch a ball behind your back?
What are the real benefits of electric toothbrushes?
All the pent-up anger is now canalizing and leading to these outbursts.
Most politicians do not want to obtain power to support just one thing.
Don’t go mad!
However, complaints from various citizens' initiatives are still to be expected.
Dear passengers, the Regional Express to Paderborn today runs contrary to the timetable on track three.
The troops withdraw.
Show bookmarks.
As Richard would say, it sounds totally unbelievable.
Hopefully this solution is long effective.
Now we all want to tolerate each other again.
Clever fella!
His mane was blowing in the wind.
Nazi comparisons are inappropriate here.
Mrs. Schmitz complained about wrist pain before she left us.
These provocations could not be longer tolerated by Maja.
The commercial relevant target group of fourteen to forty-nine year old’s is not satisfied with black and white TV.
‘‘Can you listen to me?’’ he asked through his walkie talkie.
Defective fluorescent tubes belong in the special waste because they contain mercury.
Raw food isn’t suitable for infants.
The escape would have failed by a hair's breadth.
A constant current of twelve volts runs through the primary spool.
Hopefully I do not have to go to the asylum.
Love is there for everybody.
Create event.
It is not allowed to open the urn until the counting starts.
The band has to be pulled really tight.
Fuddling with construction is not uncommon.
That’s all on Wikipedia.
The performance of Marissa was phenomenal.
Show playlist!
Heidi averted her face.
One shaft is used for the transport of miners, the other for ventilation only.
Nevertheless, you should build up a second foothold.
These are the to expect persistence slogans.
The Silo is almost full.
It is a lithium button cell with three volt.
Talk about the pot calling the kettle black.
The results are unblemished.
Tabea starts the final kick.
Which movie can I watch in Lüneburg tonight?
Konstantin already has an appointment with Konrad.
According to rumors, he is growing cannabis is his garage.
What’s on at the movies right now?
Speaking of cosmos.
The rubber is imported from Thailand and vulcanized here.
Where is the bus with the people who care about this?
At such temperatures toxic vapors can be produced.
That is why individual words become very long what seems complicated to many foreigners.
You have to promise me one thing.
The flight takes about six hours.
What you find here can, at most, be used to bend the spokes.
The device does not work without electricity.
The company successfully proofed itself.
Soaking wet, the Great Dane came out of the river and shook.
I don't want to hear a sound, got it?
The weak interaction affects which atomic nuclei are stable.
It’s not too much to expect some self-sufficiency.
If one indicator fails, the other one flashes twice as frequent so that other drivers notice the fault.
I am looking for train connections to Hamburg.
Do we have still milk?
Tonight, nobody drives from Marburg for Erlangen.
It was so nice and cozy under the blanket that Tobias found it difficult to get up.
Lothar is a PhD student at the Faculty of Natural Sciences.
The Schufa classifies its exact calculation model as a trade secret.
Sneezes should not be suppressed, but let out.
Taking three steps at a time, she rushed up the stairs.
Which five anachronisms were included in this image?
Almost everyone has an opinion about it.
You have the choice between cheap and comfortable.
On widows, the installation alone becomes an extremely difficult task.
When you set up antennas on the roof, you need to consider lightning protection.
Alternatively, we can have a look at the N-square-dimensional case, but I don’t think you have that much capability to abstract.
Let us pray.
Honestly, you're full of helicopter parents.
Yeah, I had to experience that, too.
Even with the pincers, Juliane was not able to pull the nail out of the board.
Lima is the capital of Peru.
However, it is not a national holiday.
Or that brimstone butterflies butter brimstones.
The computer's lying to me!
Another error with the code four hundred three.
One day the past will haunt him.
Nobody cares about this.
Look how they all move to the rhythm.
Power units of submarines have to be as quiet as possible.
The future looks bright.
This year, the flu epidemic bypassed Henrik.
The boat can enter the sea today!
More than ever before.
Does the sun shine today in Mülheim at the Ruhr?
Is it far to Nordhorn?
Which river goes through Kiel?
For power failures, Inge has packed a dictionary for translation into a suitcase.
Please don’t say calories when you mean kilocalories. That’s a difference by a factor of a thousand.
That's why we're glad to welcome an expert sin the auditorium.
They think that prophylaxis is better than the treatment of symptoms.
What does that mean in Slovenian?
The Weser Stadium is sold out.
Engineers cannot lie.
Than start a support group!
Great, someone else does it!
Remove everything.
It’s a long way from Flensburg to Delmenhorst.
Is there snow in Worms?
Are you blind?
Only one lane was open in both directions.
And as we can see in the replay, the impartial's offside decision was correct.
You can also call me July.
I do not understand what you are getting at.
Hmm, that smells good.
The ultimatum expires tomorrow.
Before the German Michel joins the revolution, he first buys his ticket.
Some things have to be repeated in order to stick.
Nothing but a tragic individual case.
The way to Antwerp was wrongly signposted.
Are there many attractions in Koblenz?
Children, come inside!
Anna intended to go to sports at least once a week.
In case of a damage in the flat, the landlord will keep the security deposit.
After meticulous analysis, Bruno was classified as a harmful or rather a problem bear.
Lie detectors leave much more room for interpretation as you generally think.
In addition real friends would be much harder to distinguish from fake ones then.
Therefore you must limit yourself to a purely qualitative statement.
The entire family co-sleeps.
After one to two hours everything fell into place.
The rusty frame has been falling apart for years.
Traffic moving north is backed up for two kilometers after an accident at the intersection Würzburg-West.
The satellite bowl is adjusted wrongly.
You have to be very brave now.
Armed with a glue stick and a glass of wine each, the couple sticks photos into the album.
Rolf looked at the gentlemen in the grey suits with a dark expression.
Chest out, belly in and always smile!
Manfred has to work that day due to it being a Sunday which is open for business.
What is the weather like in Schwerin?
This hill is to steep for me.
Is there an app for this function?
Because she never had a soother as a child, she now sucks on her thumb.
The dropping point is marked with a smoke signal.
Last month, my company didn’t wire transfer my salary.
We tested the blood for the most common pathogens and found nothing.
And it has already happened.
What are you doing now?
But not enough with that.
Nobody mourns the loss of the practice fee.
He doesn’t get surprised at anything any more.
Puberty is aptly called a roller-coaster of emotions.
When you drive fast, it doesn’t take long to travel from Magdeburg to Saarbrücken.
That is not her way of cooking.
I don’t know if I’ll be in Wetzlar next week.
Cancel.
Was the integration successful?
Which distribution with long-term support do you prefer?
Buildings made out of stone do not burn.
Nothing is more natural than to feed your child.
In the beginning, they force up the price to have a competitive advantage.
Many demonstrators made it clear that they are strictly against violence.
Pegasus is the Latin way of spelling it, Pegasos the Greek way.
What only happened to you?
It is of the best quality sown on my princely court.
Why are people so indifferent?
Can you describe the culprit?
Energy is never consumed, at most converted.
Elisabeth rubs her eyes surprised.
Lara prefers margarine.
I don’t like vegetables.
If they will make it?, Waldemar is questioning the plan.
Is there still sweet cream in the fridge?
Silja emphasized that she had nothing to blame herself for.
That was making her even richer.
The Korean alphabet was only invented in the fifteenth century.
Because he has nothing better to do, Mr. Schröder is polishing his car again.
How foolish can you get after you’ve had too much wine!
Meike discouraged her from doing so from the beginning.
The teams are engaging in a wild slugfest.
Not every egg hatches a chicken.
The frequency doubles with every octave.
Let us also put peppers in the salad.
Show latest news.
The blind spot is so big that even the moon can disappear into it.
Such developments create fissures in society.
This is already the third quarter with red figures.
Karoline Lendt can by now talk along in the dialog.
Doors in public facilities need to be openable in direction of the escape path.
Serious misconduct will be punished with a written disapproval.
Good night.
At full speed, the two crackpots roared towards the play street.
Let's see what she's got.
The water splashes so beautifully in every direction.
Is the weather in Leverkusen better than in Ludwigshafen at the Rhein?
Domesticated cats are to blame for the deaths of many birds.
We always buy the fir branches in a way that we can bind the wreath ourselves.
Global Minima are not found by gradient descent.
Peter drummed his fingers nervously on his knee.
“I will not buy any of your damn books” I clarified.
Before she goes to sleep, she always puts the retainer in her mouth.
It feels like there are more rats here than in the sewers.
When your back is to the wall, you don’t worry about little things like that.
Please help to decorate the tree.
When is sunrise in Potsdam?
Time is money.
If no candidate has the absolute majority, a run-off ballot happens.
But the specifications are not set in stone.
Sandra ties her hair back.
The gas mixture is then essentially pressed into the cylinder, rather than just being sucked in.
After mating, the female often eats the much smaller male.
Everyone recognizes the smell because it has a high recall value.
What does this mean in Saxony?
If I will ever penetrate the code in its entire depth seems questionable.
Medications entering waste water are a problem for the environment.
Children enjoy fool-liberty anyway.
A different muscle, however, is the highest performer.
How are you supposed to get all the admitted sixteen people in this tiny elevator?
You can revoke your decision anytime, either verbally or in writing.
The cable from the toaster is not plugged in.
I can even do a double knot.
What does that mean in Swiss-German?
The hardware is just outdated, Sigmar says.
Thanks to his social nature, Mr. Hoffmann has always helped to improve the working atmosphere.
Two drugstore chains basically dominate the market.
She always endeavored to complete her tasks within the given time.
Tripolis is the capital of Libyen.
I thought he'd decided not to do it anymore.
A different principle comes into play here.
I still have a three-bedroom apartment in the city center available.
Lusaka is the capital of Sambia.
The trucks trying to enter Switzerland are often backed up on A-five – north of Basel.
Freetown is the capital of Sierra Leone.
Switch off the ventilation system.
Due to his tuberculosis he did not even turn forty years old.
The woman’s mental problems leaded to suicide.
You can frame it and hang it on the wall.
To renew the corrosion protection, the bridge will be blocked.
Bangkok is the capital of Thailand.
The construction site was cleared.
Anyone can cross the second bridge.
Beijing is the capital of the People's Republic of China.
Nobody starts smoking in their mid-twenties.
You can only see how long the party mile really is from the fifth floor.
Can I cut your hair?
Firefighters hurry by and stretch out a jump sheet.
Will the solar system pay for itself?
Does Flensburg have more inhabitants than Schweinfurt?
And that’s it.
The police are neither willing nor able to handle my data sensibly.
Then he hung up.
After critically looking in the mirror Lars shared that he needs to go to the hairdresser again.
I will clean the table now in the mean time you can talk.
Natalie and Benny are planning to renovate the entire top floor over the long weekend.
That is creepy.
The oxygen content of a gas mixture is determined with lambda probes.
But sometimes it is very interesting to put a false statement into the room and see who believes it.
Alcohol is not a solution, it’s a distillate.
The postmark bears the date of the fourth of March.
In that field the development is at the very beginning.
Who did not finish their food yesterday?
Do machines have feelings?
Looking for flights to Madrid.
Cartesian coordinates are not very well-suited for that.
Lieutenant Schulze, live and in color!
Don't let strangers involve you in conversations.
In order to build up muscles quickly, Willi eats an exaggeratedly high protein diet.
Antarctica is the most southern continent on earth.
Hargeysa is the capital of Somaliland.
You see, this pipe is defective and must be replaced.
Tamara suffered from headache because of all this chatting.
The decisive battle was fought in this valley.
Looking for flights to Iceland.
Toyota also offers various models as hybrids.
Only a small part of the population donates blood regularly.
Turns out he was playing too high.
Yes, it really is a remarkable remedy.
Can you pick me up in Passau?
What does that mean in Romansh?
In contrast to common understanding, a quantum leap is tiny.
The old walls are protected as historical monuments.
A typhoon blusters over the island.
Normally, the boathouse is closed.
Do not forget go give a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel!
Follow your nose!
They use water-cooled braking discs in the Formula One.
And where exactly does that stand?
We have the wrong one.
Good evening.
Demographically, it is not just important how many children a woman gives birth on average.
Like Facebook, where users have to log in with their name and password.
If you’re not sure what to do, start a work group!
Does that work?
Now all that helped was pray.
Yes no sure.
Instead it is mostly used for commercial purposes and funny cat videos.
You can choose whether you prefer to use an open-ended wrench or a ring wrench.
At the top of the dump, the wind blew strongly.
And this is important so pay attention.
It is outrageous how quickly Birgit socializes.
Provisional living containers function as an accommodation to new arrivals.
Who has the best recess sandwich out of everyone?
A steam ironing station can make ironing much easier.
It's not just rich merchants who come here.
You’ve told this story to us at least ten times already.
The rest you have to make up on your own.
He can also remove the compression sock alone.
The reflex is controlled by the spinal cord.
Ms. Knoll wants to fly at higher game.
You can get washing pegs made of either wood or plastic.
The though ones try it without anyways.
Yes, I'll be right there!
Regular physical activity is the best prevention of many diseases.
The low yield may be decisively.
She is really in love with Bodo.
School's cancelled today due to cyclone Xavier.
You suck up knowledge like a sponge.
Even if their motor fails, helicopters can still land safely.
Is it really that late already?
Fabienne thinks that she has lactose intolerance.
Open the garage door!
I cannot confirm it like that.
When is she finally coming online?
The farmer then places the herd in the transporter.
Kairo is the capital of Egypt.
Dinner is ready.
A lean mixture burns more efficiently.
As she grew older, her memories of the war returned and took a toll on her mental health.
This circle looks more like an Easter egg now.
And now the lottery numbers.
In the hotel he serves himself at the mini bar.
What else were we supposed to do?
The prophet read to his disciples what was it said on the parchment roll.
At the airport, once you are through check-in, you have to go through security.
The minister of defense called the happening as a smart move.
These are my recordings.
The second mouse wins the cheese.
Vanessa has not completely recovered yet.
Ferdinand pulled the hood down low over his face.
A lie doesn’t become more true the more often it is repeated.
The Weißeritz is a tributary of the Elbe.
Not this, but the critique is legitimate.
The engaged young man gave us a brilliant introduction.
Shouldn’t it have stood out?
What does that mean in Arabic?
I must have made a mistake, Kunibert thought.
How long does it take by train to get from Heilbronn to Bayreuth?
At the Winter Olympics, North and South Korea sent one joint ice hockey team.
After forty years of dictatorship, change is now occurring.
As for this aspect, please reconsider your approach.
Who is the mayor of Erlangen?
The program can switch and operate as it pleases.
Morning, dear colleagues.
The bells ring every quarter of an hour.
If the view is good one can catch sight of the ruins from here.
Scientists are completely baffled.
One can also use the addition theorem upside down.
Does anyone have questions about the lecture?
Son, I'm not asking for the purchase price, I'm asking for the value!
Both lungs are not equally important.
That means you will be demolished.
"Easily digestible" is usually preferable to fatty food.
Saving emojis, however, requires a compatible character set.
There is a coming and going such as seen at the main station.
Actually the report was never supposed to reach the public.
You play golf?
We want to go to dance in the May.
Oh, what a coincident.
Our exhibition is unique world wide .
So-called common sense does not replace education.
It's gonna be like this all night long.
The prisoners are working on a plan.
After six months there is a turn-around of evidence.
Among its function as energy sources oil is serving as lubricant as well.
I do not agree with your correction.
The old man stuffed tobacco in the pipe.
I need a present for my mum.
The two are still looking for a sponsor for the charity run.
After eighteen months, the pet finally found their way back home.
You shouldn’t start contentious discussions with the examiner before the exam.
Open Mozilla Firefox.
We have to intubate, the EMT paramedic said to his coworker.
With a jerk, the cabin began to move.
The little creek is going through the wood until he finally goes under a tunnel.
Speech processing software must recognize these facts.
Silence on the cheap seats!
But in return it is free.
Hard body check.
Throw me the towel over!
It is comfortable to always play the victim.
My car has chrome wheel rims!
The air force just sent us a message.
Near Passau you will encounter a wrong-way-driver.
Due to its flat construction, the car has a great drag coefficient.
Therefore, the inner silicon layer is doped with boron.
Do you go to the Aldi quickly or do you drive to the Rewe?
Sometimes it’s smartest to act dumb.
You don’t have to play their games.
You make everything look so easy.
The epoch was named after the enormous city walls.
Open web browser.
Nothing is as fail-safe as simple, robust mechanics.
The antique tractor had a misfire.
The Nightmare of every car driver.
Everywhere there are grassy houses like in the Auenland.
To improve the reception situation an external antenna can be used.
First of all, I need to recover from the shock.
If potatoes are considered as vegetables, then fries are vegetables as well.
Give it here, I’ll refill the bread basket.
Rolling out the red carpet.
In addition to that your seatbelt is not fastened.
Reconsider who really is your target group.
It's not always fair.
Fly back to the mothership.
She says hi to you all.
The essay contains many grammatical errors.
You like the drummer most.
I swear, I have nothing to do with this.
With moderate interest, Vincent skimmed the news headlines.
Why are you all so sensation seeking? Fiona asked reproachfully.
A miserable whispering could be heard out of the room.
But he started.
Install this function.
Concentrate on your breathing.
I can't offer you anything unless you want wool.
The Mona-Lisa in the gallery is obviously only a copy.
Oh damn, the tire is flat.
Vibration engines are usually just common engines with imbalances.
It pulls down the denser, cold air.
Every birthday is another step closer to death.
E-mails are free, but you’ll only get help on the phone.
Matthias is a dreamer.
My desk has been tidied up in an exemplary manner.
Hans Zimmer composed the soundtrack for the film.
The speaker once again badmouths his coworkers.
Search for trains to Hildesheim.
The area is extremely swollen.
This according to a Chinese proverb.
I’m not so sure whether that’s true or not.
How dare you?
But nice try!
This once again shows how big of a difference solar radiation makes, even in winter.
The motor is running quite weakly.
Laundry detergent comes in both a liquid and powder form.
The fuel filter is completely clogged.
Now that the excitement has calmed down, let’s try it a bit more leisurely.
You can make a lot of things out of hemp, not just drugs.
She rolled both die and got another double immediately.
The first bite is not as strong as the second.
The crisis helpline is free and does not show on the telephone bill.
Help, I am dying!
Nobody thought they would make it to Barcelona in time.
Have you ever submitted a petition to the German Bundestag?
The upper class is fully equipped with everything from lane departure warning system to automated parking.
Don’t let anyone get the better of you.
These people have a very outdated idea about women, to put it mildly.
The next meeting doesn’t start until three in the afternoon.
Let’s leave it like that.
How many galaxies are there in the universe?
If our efforts will be crowned by success, remains unknown of course.
When she inspected the files on her, Kerstin discovered some intimate details that the Stasi spies had found out about her.
Astana is the capital of Kazakhstan.
First Isabel’s baby teeth come out.
It’s possible that we’ll go to Hamburg.
Cassandra wants her own horse.
Do you really want to drive all the way to Freiburg in Breisgau?
At the end it will degenerate into a feeding orgy again.
There’s no lumber mill in Bad Segeberg.
Port Moresby is the capital of Papua-New Guinea.
Who’s there?, she asked in a trembling voice.
For those cases Nina has a butler.
It is a thesis, not a sentence.
How often did that happen until now?
Actually, the pressure relief valve should have opened.
The bubble's gonna burst sometime.
The penguin embodies something living, the window something dead.
Please watch out, kitchen knives are very sharp.
Okay, if I have to!
It can happen to anyone.
This isn’t the Fachhochschule!
You want a concrete example?
Waiter, the bill please!
When the master talks to a customer, the apprentice better keeps their mouth shut.
In case of lack of oxygen the fuel does not burn entirely.
What does that mean in Finnish?
Is Speyer bigger than Gera?
A concrete base provides the necessary stability.
A moment of carelessness is enough and everything gets destroyed.
Kigali is the capital of Rwanda.
Jupiter is the biggest planet in our solar system.
Mogadischu is the capital of Somalia.
So, our car is a piece of crap.
In Koblenz, the Moselle flows into the Rhine.
You can’t just leave me behind!
Appropriate equipment must be acquired.
That is only a isotonic saline solution, said the paramedic calmly.
Tina has colored pencils in all colors, but only the beige one is missing.
The Kingdom of Naples existed from thirteen hundred and two to eighteen hundred and eighteen.
This Rolls-Royce built for left-hand traffic is so highly automated that it can be described as left-autonomous.
The fall storm even pulled a few roof tiles off our neighbor’s place.
Regardless of how many fish you eat, Helene is Fischer.
Only the dumbest calves select their butchers themselves.
When does Natalie want to come?
There is a memorial plaque in the cemetery, which reminds of the soldiers killed during the second world war.
Others try to help the marine mammal.
If you stuffed them all in a bag and beat it with a stick, you’d hit the right one every time.
The exercises are not good for him.
Kingstown is the capital of St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
Manila is the capital of the Philippines.
How nice that you exist!
Then also the social democratic party of Germany.
How could I delude myself so much?
In the past, mouses did not work optically, but with a mechanical ball, which got dirty all the time.
Should we watch inactively?
At least this is about the line of succession.
She just dives through under the barrier.
Instead of going to the store around the corner, she took her SUV.
Preheat the car.
The goblin munched on the greenish yellow mucous.
Looking for a train connection to Düsseldorf.
The machine won’t accept my notes.
Install this app.
The Pacific Ocean is also called the Pacific.
Only England, Scotland and Wales belong to Great Britain.
A treasurer is responsible for the finances of an organization.
Well, to me this seems like a change of power.
H and P phrases have replaced R and S phrases in chemical labelling.
What he said was grossly exaggerated, of course.
It is a bit too warm.
There's a contract to be negotiated first.
But I’m not interested in her.
Mel is really celebrating his success.
Sometimes you just have to do something crazy.
The bathers run out of the sea screaming in panic.
The more economical the washing program is, the longer it takes.
When driving onto the highway one does not brake.
Besides the mayor also the artist attended.
They drove through an alley of maple trees.
Even the steel girders are not built for eternity.
After some things went wrong with the home construction, Corina and Manfred sued the architects.
Please remove all disruptive crackling.
The yeast dough will take a few hours.
In front of us drove a patrol car, which asked us by trowel to stop.
How many feet does a millipede really have?
The important thing about tortellini is the filling.
The charge is accessory to murder in at least eight cases.
Good morning.
A friend of mine is getting out of prison tomorrow.
The door is locked from the inside.
Jonas was first at the Leibniz Institute, but now he works for the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft.
A tube with the ointment changes owners for over a hundred bucks.
Can you really get to the top floor with the aerial ladder?
Through the church clock, the workers in the field knew what time it was.
I think, I’m in the wrong movie
I’ll ask the questions here.
Who wants to go in the cage of the turntable ladder vehicle?
How can you laugh about it?
Now that I know my grade, I still have one question.
How is it called again when someone only communicates with gestures?
She would like to have a small lap dog like that too.
Controllers have been complaining for a long time that they have no legal means of handling them.
We’ve already had this.
But apart from that you have no prejudices, right?
In the medical sector, IT security is very poor.
The four-legged creatures dug around in the sand as if they were looking for something.
It is said, that in this district even the police doesn’t dare to be anymore.
Sure the reconnaissance plane is an expensive purchase.
Ergon has not seen it, but he recognizes the Harley by it’s noise.
It is so annoying.
My attorney advised against that.
Riad is the capital of Saudi Arabia.
Many researchers have already had a tough time with this.
Paramaribo is Suriname’s capital.
In the armchair you can electrically adjust the backrest.
Edward pacifies: “Good things take time.”
I do not expect any sympathy, but I want you to understand me.
When he was eleven, Leon stepped on a rusty nail that went through his foot.
All canons are ready to fire.
Do not disturb!
I had to stop my trip in Berlin.
The system is idiot-proof.
Brazzaville is the capital of the Republic of Kongo.
She dragged strongly on the cigarette and coughed.
No police, no tricks - otherwise the hostages will die.
It could even be counterproductive.
That should accommodate them.
Something must have happened.
There can be no question of a long runner.
That is a typical rear-end collision.
Please create a note.
View wish list.
The library is a bit dusty, but it serves it’s purpose wonderfully.
It will probably quite costly to arrange such a wine collection.
For some countries, applying for a visa is a lot of work.
This needs to be made public!
Winter diesel fuel doesn’t coagulate in colder temperatures.
Do you see feelings as weakness?
I get queasy when property damage and assault are put on an equal level.
All that’s left for her is to save her own skin.
I hope my criticism does not immediately plunge you into the next existential crisis.
Because both packs are unbroken, it doesn't matter which one you take.
Due to the lack of demand, the operation will be discontinued from January.
Sometimes Elisabeth could be very annoying.
The cause of the crash was that a text file was saved with a line break.
This is a dog-eat-dog society.
Philosophy is cancelled on Thursday.
I bet this will be trendy again in twenty years.
Otherwise, it is slightly traceable.
Pristina is the capital of Kosovo.
A bit.
Swing is a special rhythm of Jazz and dance music.
It is possible that the diocese of Trier is not an individual case.
A sentence should include a maximum of eleven word.
Vivien blew out her cheeks.
Bagdad is the capital of Iraq.
This interaction was successful.
She was exuberantly thankful for this little gift.
The from seeds pressed oil is very healthy.
Kruse puts his finger in the wound.
Maybe he can help you.
That is why we push you to invest more.
Can we shoot a film here?
Beginners and impatient people barbecue with a hairdryer.
Is the washing machine ready?
Then he flashes that mischievous grin again.
Breath condenses in cold winter air.
A press officer didn’t want to confirm nor deny the accusations.
What is the band called again that performed there?
And with that we are already at the end of the broadcast, the presenter led over to the next topic.
Who do we have to pay, so that the greenhorn does not say anything?
Karl nervously cleaned his glasses, although they were actually clean.
The berries aren’t ripe yet.
So cute, her little nose!
Asterix comics glamorize violence and stimulant drugs.
Squidward is a grumpy cuttlefish.
Politicians who always sway with the wind are ineligible.
Because of a sit-in, the demonstration march took a different route than planned.
Recent excavations point to something else.
Apparently the specific details are classified.
Should we expect the temperature to drop below freezing in Essen today?
This bar is really awesome, gushed Claudia.
These days, children probably don’t even know what a cassette is.
He unfortunately does not do the knot yet.
Normally it would be too unhealthy for him.
n severe disfigurements, one tries to transplant skin from the butt to the face.
Air traffic control releases are police responsibility.
Maybe rain dances should be performed occasionally.
She does not dare, even though she would not have to fear backlash.
How many steps did you walk today?
Should I address your parents formally?
When did you test your blood sugar levels last time?
What do we have in the pantry?
Change the viscosity parameter.
The world record is at six minuets and thirty-one point four seconds.
Press thirty times, ventilate twice.
I told you to turn right there.
Especially when you’re barely ever home anyways.
Was the person active in the art industry?
But where does the crest of the wave on the side facing away from the moon come from?
Then Uschi Strauß can put a tick behind it.
Adding a level spoonful of sugar.
Of course, if they suffer from malnutrition or something similar, they won’t reach this size.
Oh Benno, I did not want that.
But I would like to have a bottle without gas.
Once a year, a festival happens here. Otherwise it’s totally dead.
What are the neighbors supposed to think of us?
In spite of the freezing cold, the first few people dare to go into the North Sea for a few minutes.
St George’s is capital of Grenada.
Stoichiometry specifies in which proportions substances are consumed when reacting with each other.
Thank goodness!
It's pretty crazy when you think about how different siblings can be.
Praia is the capital of Cape Verde.
Watch out, there's a speed camera at the next intersection.
How long can you hold your breath?
I think that’s stacked pretty high.
For fire safety reasons, we inflate the tires with pure nitrogen.
Many craftsmen have already lost their thumbs by this means.
As soon as it was doubted the project turned out to be great.
This is a fan that pre-compresses the suction air.
The appliers are still waiting for a patch.
That way nothing gets lost.
Step on it!
If enough drunks donate their voice, the speech recognition will also understand alcoholics.
Franzi blows strongly at the embers to ignite the fire.
I would say it is an in-between thing of dystopia and utopia.
Of course they’re no use if the battery is empty.
Excuse me, these seats are reserved.
Researchers report an increasing seismic activity in the shut-off area.
Nice watch that you’ve got there.
He, it is red!
Erwin is a tough interferer.
We distill our own liquors.
You can’t vote for this party because it’s corrupt through and through.
With a compass, you can construct triangles on a paper.
The A-forty crosses the Ruhr region from Duisburg to Dortmund.
The bottom of the ocean is often only a few million years old.
My shoe lace has torn again.
The Indian Ocean is the third largest ocean on earth.
I don’t want a model, but a normal girl to be my girlfriend, Tim said.
Radionuclide batteries make reliable energy sources for decades.
I am searching for the animal shelter.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
Luise folded her hands in prayer position.
Is Ryanair an Irish airline?
Where is Karina?
What an idiot.
The cake is delicious.
Many people just don’t know how to form an emergency corridor.
When are we going to finally synthesize spider threads on a big scale?
Nursing mothers should be stood for.
Which wine are you recommending with this?
I want to buy groceries.
The horses are saddled.
Searching trains to Rosenheim
We’ve lost visual contact.
My grandmother hears voices when she is lonely.
What can I do for you?
We should slowly start to think about whether we should use more radical methods.
I refuse to grow up!
He does not express his anger but swallows it all down.
Granary was planted even in ancient cultures.
Roseau is the capital of Dominican Republic.
Abide by kitchen hygiene rules.
Can this be gotten rid of?
Eugen told me he visited a brown coal mine in Lusatia.
Have you ever walked to Karlsruhe?
There are objects on the roadway of the A-four, Giessen to Erfurt, between Bad Hersfeld and Friedewald.
God damnit.
This afternoon, Frank will give a talk about special effects in Hollywood movies.
With this the start has already been a success.
Industry robots work quickly and really precisely.
This is working fabulously.
Juba is the capital of South Sudan.
Unfortunately, we don’t have the suitable replacement in stock anymore.
Have you ever changed the V-belt?
On the way the package passes several intermediate stations.
With a disguised voice she called the assistance.
This is the place to be.
I can top up your drink!
The Pole took a Bunsen burner out of his work bag.
Why are you not wearing your helmet?
There are other fields for the seeds.
Who can think of something that rhymes with Asia?
You can feed trolls with fish and cookies.
Work on electrical systems should always be carried out by an electrician.
Mostly, a few cables are being bitten through, so that the electronics don’t work properly.
Sport has positive impacts, not just physically but also mentally.
After two years she still doesn’t have the Greek alphabet down.
Kingston is the capital of Jamaica.
As seen in this Crashtest, Dummy comes out of it only with mild injuries.
Mr. Burgdorf was just about to scrub the floor.
Master Knolle recently called him similar.
If you never charge it, your SIM card will be deactivated at some point.
You’re saying exactly what I feel.
The ICE connection between Cologne and Frankfurt am Main is the fastest in Germany.
Unnecessary use of antibiotics can lead to resistances.
Spain does not only consist of Mallorca and Ibiza.
Bratislava is the capital of Hungary.
Although everyone has long since agreed that summertime should be abolished, it is not.
The scouts will have quickly found a shallow place in water for sure.
Port-au-Prince is the capital of Haiti.
Imagine it works, but nobody succeeds.
Function converges to zero for big X.
We are taking the elevator.
On the right you can see the mayor and his wife.
The official language of Iran is Persian.
This is a very sunny place.
“Are there dissenting votes?” the election supervisor asked.
This is the last call for passenger Meier, it sounded in the speaker.
You should just turn a blind eye on things.
The Free Voters still exist in Staubingen.
Back then Moers was still under Prussian administration.
Every human is different.
Asmara is the capital of Eritrea.
Babylon was the capital of Babylonia one of the most important cities of ancient times.
Nairobi is the capital of Kenia.
How good do you ski?
What does that mean in German?
Your alleged ultrasonic device is ear-deafeningly loud.
Does the postal service also delivering parcels on Saturday?
Launch program.
Isn’t that number a little too obvious?
You wouldn’t believe how many trolley accidents there are every day,
Another mean helps a lot more effective against thieves.
Let us borrow a tandem.
Herald has decided to go for stomach reduction.
I’ll hurry, promise.
You can buy it in every pharmacy for around twenty-fife Euros per liter.
The entire interior had been thoroughly and carefully cleaned.
This van looks suspicious.
Careful, Scam!
The four main actors are being named in the paper.
For several hours even.
That has to be explained more elegant!
Oh, here we are.
Navigate me to railway station street six.
Is that an accident vehicle?
Do we still have cream in the fridge?
These events are considered to be extremely damaging and have a high potential of traumatizing a person.
So, it is very easy.
Almost everyone recognizes the soundtrack of The Pirates of the Caribbean.
Who screams will most likely be wrong.
And this, although my brother suffers from arachnophobia.
A further space for self-suppliers is to be created.
Is the Internet broken?
Alright, everyone shut up for a moment!
Please don’t fight!
It is practically impossible to remove the digital watermark retrospectively.
You cannot run from fate.
May I have your attention please?
Plug-in hybrids can be powered by both electricity and gasoline.
Bavarian liver cheese contains no liver at all.
Has anyone seen a purple hair clip?, Elli asked the group.
What is that, a pulley?
Show me your wand!
Here’s Lupe Bookkeeping, how do you do?
So to speak, you have to beat them with their own weapons.
Not much blood is needed for transfusions.
Who can name one famous painter of postmodernism?
I wonder if Björn will ever learn how to put on a tie.
The Oder leads to the Baltic Sea.
Minsk is the capital of Belarus.
Fortunately, the city is not dependent on tourism alone.
Singapore is the capital of the city state of Singapore.
Brussels is the capital of Belgium.
Are you on the guest list?
After the unsuccessful takeover, there are increasing doubts about the management of the company.
With an empty gaze he distributed the granules.
All units are centrally coordinated at the headquarters.
No one, who has tried, has reached the core of the planet.
Whoever thought of that is a genius.
With beef!
Cheeky you!
Where is my car?
It was only a half-hearted attempt after all.
Show me the shortest route home.
The fender was painted afterwards, you can see that from of the thickness of the paint.
The bumper was full of scratches caused by parking.
A layman cannot predict If the gases are poisonous.
If Oleg only could see that!
Did you say anything?
When you have 250 voting members, differences of opinion are very possible.
Suva is the capital of Fiji.
The decision was made by the member gathering with one voice.
These days, both bridges can be crossed free of charge.
Assign the quotations to their respective authors!
Pizza dough can be self-made too.
An insect bit Fabi directly into his popliteal fossa.
It is a perfectly justified objection.
Saint Nikolaus is coming on the sixth of December.
Can we also draw with felt pens?
With speech recognition software, this too would work differently.
At low speed, electric cars are almost silent.
The Northern Corridor is free of ice.
A little gust of wind and this thing tips over.
Look at the bone structure.
Show recipe list
Those who follow in the footsteps of others will never find their own way.
Call Marc over Skype.
An electric mixer is a must in every kitchen
I know the facial expression from your sister.
The minimum system requirements are just about met in this way.
I live in Celle.
During their ride on the cog railroad, some passengers felt some cracking in their ears.
But without my racket bag pack I feel like a mortal.
But real campers sit on the ground or on tree trunks.
I am a fan of mechanical emergency buttons.
The people with the worst eyes always sit in the last row.
Kurt has just made it up.
This noise is unbearable.
Add to wish list.
When a tiger bites, it does it in two steps.
Sensational, the roving reporter would say about that.
There was a scandal at the awards ceremony.
Black like my soul.
You’re just jealous.
Can’t you go down a little with the price?
Don’t you think she could play something for you?
The season comes to an end.
Let's virtually immerse ourselves in the Stone Age!
Tell me, where does she hide?
The wood cracks every now and then.
Why is Melinda so taciturn today?
The mason presented a number of different gravestones to us.
Don’t you dare!
All of a sudden it got dark, a storm arose and the earth was quaking.
If the external pressure changes too quickly, there is a pressure difference to the inside of the ear.
Banjul is the capital of Gambia.
To reach the bare wire, one should remove the isolation.
Pride comes before the fall.
I am telling you, he simply knows everything.
On a big poster the family tree of family Vogt is displayed.
With what do we want to fill the zucchini?
Yes, sometimes I wish I had a rich aunt.
Why only on weekdays?
Well, Thaddäus.
Where did I park my car?
Whose beer mug is that?
You must not forget the punctuation marks. And use it properly!
That's how easy it is to expose a liar.
It may come as a surprise, but even I cannot manage everything
In the tourist center there are simply too many people.
Do you have an Euro?
Never have I seen someone changing his skin color so fast.
You can’t even see the code among all the comments anymore.
In the university hospital students are used as strike breakers.
Just great!
That is team spirit!
A strong faith can help to overcome crisis and grief.
The music plays over there!
Ottawa is the capital of Canada.
Addis Abeba is the capital of Ethiopia.
Tirana is the capital of Albania.
Welcome to my home.
The assistant took an ampoule from the cabinet and opened an injection.
Sixty-one are in favor of it, fifty-three against it, no abstentions.
You won’t move a centimeter, okay?
Which means that the village has been evacuated for nothing.
In an arched mirror, you can only see your distorted image.
The ignition voltage does not come directly from the battery, but is generated by a transformer.
Great investments in its development are no longer worthwhile.
I'm afraid a complete repainting is necessary here.
After Ho Chi Minh City, Hanoi is the second largest city in Vietnam.
What is written in the books regarding this section?
This external effect holds atomic nuclei together.
The data use of an LTE connection is normally higher than with UMTS.
If the sentence contains mistakes, you have to utter the mistake as well.
Additionally, one should note the point in time.
You can’t win anything nowadays when you use this technology.
Oh, you’re both wearing the same shoes.
He was wearing a three-day-stubble.
Well, he has more muscles than brains.
In an emergency situation, you have to think something up.
Can you feel how many marbles you have between your toes?
Since one week Timmy has a lose tooth.
Shops were looted in the station district.
Dora said she was exhausted.
It’s best if we take the train.
There was no pressure to tear down old buildings du replace them with new ones.
And everybody knew it.
Taking alternative routes enhances your knowledge of a place.
No pain no gain.
Jim is an atheist.
Everything works.
The boss is announcing the largest recall in the history of the company.
Brasília is the capital of Brazil.
The hacker is tampering with the console.
The surfing class will already start at 8.
Ms. Schmidt has bumped her nose.
Coal and oil have hidden costs that cause third parties to suffer.
After passport control, the transit area starts
Despite it being made out of iron, this iron wall did not feel cold at all.
Where does the urge to acquire prestigious assets stem from?
The self-proclaimed expert again told the myth of unlimited riches.
When driving you should always expect the mistakes of others.
You should put them all over your knees!
Are you fully operational?
I can’t find the error.
The inner organs are secured and supported by a chitin shell.
Did she get caught?
And finally, there were self-steering projectiles.
Aquaponic combines fish farming and plant breeding under one roof.
Did you put the paper bin by the street yet?
Follow him!
On the logarithmic scale, this is the middle.
Thank you for the food and drinks.
The whole area is completely devastated.
no, but a pair of tweezers.
I will borrow a bike at the hotel, she said.
The DNS-Server exists to look up unknown addresses.
You can cut, copy and paste using the usual keyboard combinations.
My fans are much cooler than yours!
Singing and hiking fit together perfectly.
Look, you can already see the first sprouts.
Your nutrition plan still allows for five hundred calories in food intake today.
Something went wrong during the decanting.
Does it hurt a lot?
But yes, she also needs playmates of the same age.
The dubious intermediary didn’t trust her from the very beginning.
Of all the ones it could have been, this advertisement loaded the quickest.
Our environment doesn’t yield this.
I have never experienced such a bus driver.
I would not expect too much of the filming.
I advocate for acquittal.
Half of what?
Achim has been paying attention to his diet lately.
There were riots again on the weekend.
She would’ve never ever survived the collision.
That she forgot her son’s birthday showed how bad she was.
The World Health Organization recommends a maximum of fifty grams added sugar a day.
Your private jet is being refueled right now, but it is ready to take off otherwise.
Thank you for your opinion.
Whatever it may cost.
Autocorrection is not a big help.
The ceremony has been cheerfully opened by the principle.
No more lies!
Immediately after birth, the calf is separated from the cow.
Hurry up!
You can find out more about this topic on our homepage.
What’s on your mind?
Calcutta was the capital of British India.
If you break, you lose.
Mannheim is the starting point.
Dimitri has left us a message.
The country is economically doing great.
Gernot is a true survivor.
I could do that too.
The headquarter of the ZDF is in Mainz.
Which highway exit should I use, If I am driving to Hamm.
Who knows what dignified means to her.
The weapons eventually belong to the costume.
Based on a trail in the otherwise new snow cover you can determine the species.
We are ruled by internet printouts.
According to the packet, the salmon comes from a Norwegian fish farm.
No other muscle is as powerful as the muscle used to bite.
With that she left us behind baffled.
Theo wanted to cuddle, but Frida blocked him.
Due to a failed education policy one must mostly self-teach media literacy.
There one just relaxes.
Don’t fiddle!
Sleepily, Marianne glanced at the alarm clock.
Yesterday he secretly stole the primer.
I bet that he will not show up.
A small garden has to be cared for well.
With his goal to three to zero, Hoffmann concluded the business.
Very big Tennis
Due to him the spirit is empty.
I do not smoke since two years.
Very nice illustration!
With all the seals of approval, you just don’t know anymore which one to trust.
Strawberries are for dessert.
Remember what we agreed upon.
Her sides were shaved short but the rest of hair was even longer.
As often as Malte has already rolled over his headphone cord, it's a miracle that it's still sound.
Why are the flags hanging at half-mast?
You should be well prepared for the future with this.
In the year two thousand fourteen, there was a flood here.
Djibouti is the capital of Djibouti.
Some scientists believe that the signal’s origin is a neutron star.
Tourism is one of the biggest economic factors nowadays.
They can be seen in the chemical equation.
Kiev is the capital of Ukraine.
Looks like criminal schemes are fairly common in your team.
The majority of pet names are just embarrassing.
Everyone calls loudly: Kudos, it’s a technical knockout!
I’m not at all interested in that.
Always arrive well and safely at the destination.
Additionally, the videos are full of covert advertising.
When neural nets trained to recognize images dream, they create artistic images.
Have a nice weekend, everybody.
They stem from before.
Another aircraft carrier is already on its way to the conflict zone.
But there are some people drunk already.
In Hongkong, the don’t speak Mandarin but Cantonese.
The farmer pulled on one root and got five.
That was NDR-two’s traffic service.
The quota is already used up, Olivia regretted.
Only the opera square, and the theater- and museum streets belong to Roland.
Due to erosion the floor structure disappears again after a few years.
Corresponding passages in terms of use are therefore to be regarded as invalid.
The music is just electrifying.
Dublin is the capital of Ireland.
More air contains more oxygen, which can interact with the engine.
One always has to be careful.
The sender and receiver have to be indicated on the package.
I didn’t even know we had such a thing.
While I couldn’t understand her words, her facial expressions and gestures told me enough.
We can cancel it anytime.
Show snow forecast for Zell am See.
Make a statement.
The printer shows that the color magenta needs to be filled up.
Knowledge of foreign languages are a trump in any case.
Please speak louder.
Don’t point naked fingers at anyone who’s dressed.
At such wind speeds we can not use the crane.
You open it by right clicking on the context menu.
They advocate for something in order to seize power.
Large size photographs were shown.
The reception cuts out.
I suggest we split up.
If you do not remove your mutt from the store, I'll spit it on!
You contributed your part.
Australia is not an island, it is a continent.
It is impossible to reach the horizon.
Mathematics is the art of avoiding to do math.
Julius did not hesitate, but showed no mercy to his opponent.
The herb butter is self-made,right?
You understood me correctly.
You can pass the guards invisibly through the ventilation shaft.
But she is just as ugly as the night.
Yes, but that’s completely different for me!
Why did you not say that immediately?
Turn off the light in the living room!
Call us under the zero one-hundred and eighty fife-hundred-eleven seven-hundred twenty-two.
Basic research is important.
They’ve been laid off.
The girl in the purple dress is called Annika.
The job of school is education, not training, the headmaster reminded the parents.
We are ready to accept your conditions.
Have you seen Christine?
That goes without saying, comments Norbert.
Anything that hasn't existed for centuries will at best be recognized as a cult.
Today the new couch was delivered, this is the first one bought in my life.
Goals scored by children count twice as much.
Overalls are available in many different colors.
Sometimes, Günther is also a vegan.
Does anyone still want to drive to Bergheim today?
Everything is allowed.
A piece of fabric is stuck in the zipper and now the backpack cannot be closed.
Exactly!
Those who revolt with greed should suffer like an animal
The train doesn't stop in Schweinfurt today.
Prices will triple.
Did no one do an emergency call?
Maybe it would be the tenth.
It is always amazing how quickly the Minister changes his mind when he meets with lobbyists.
Therefore, will not avoid it.
It’s finally time.
Perhaps he already passed the zenith of his success.
One inch is two point five four centimeters.
You can read so much into that.
The trick mainly consists of distracting the audience.
All the traders refuse to accept my used one as payment.
Sometimes, I just want to turn back time.
One Moment, I will put you through.
Motorbikes have to rattle loudly so that the driver feels comfortable.
Paula argued, Sylt is ways to expensive for me.
It’s not a good idea to connect every device to the internet.
“The only gleam of hope was the good food” Judith said.
Mr. Hoppe is very picky on such occasions.
Folding chairs are made for camping.
Maja and Elfriede do not want to miss the spectacle in any case.
The goalkeeper keeps Leverkusen in the game with a brilliant parade.
Why do the bulbs blow while switching on?
Sofia is the capital of Bulgaria.
Elfriede wants to give a sign of trust.
A new aerial railway was built here.
Ouagadougou is the capital of Burkina Faso.
Who snuffles and swallows prevents new germs from entering the environment and infecting other people.
Say, my loyal subject, where is all my marzipan?
Down in the computer shop they are always cleaning the mainboards with air compression.
Are there any new messages?
It is raining out of buckets.
Change the channel!
Excuse me?, the riot policeman asked and lifted his visor.
Henrike bought the freezing homeless man a jacket out of pity.
An archer already had him in his sights.
What is new on Netflix?
And now our correspondent for Scandinavia has joined us.
Now we all have to use our oldest memory , Anton said and scratched his head.
You could help out for once!
At the moment, our hands are still tied.
Mossul is the second largest city in Iraq.
Fine, how about another suggestion?
In the east the are a few of the Halligen to be seen.
Which one of you can scream the loudest?
Mr. Kunze just had an appendectomy.
Hanoi is the capital of Vietnam.
You'll get sick.
How do you test if a material is ferromagnetic?
Please close the hatch.
I can agree to that fully.
There are convertibles with fabric or metal roofs.
Put up your sleeves and tackle it!
This is still not leading to anything.
The shipping costs come on top.
We should not rely on him.
Rain drops can not harm a flying mosquito very strongly.
The buildings of the era were made possible by newly invented techniques in stone masonry.
Tegucigalpa is the capital of Honduras.
Jeanette is a passionate sailor.
That was great, Jessica!
All the characters in the novel are simple.
Seems like I will confront this bugger.
The warning signs can be suppressed using command line parameters.
What is that in Maltese?
It’s possible to change the variables around whichever way you want.
At the end the bread rolls are being sprinkled with sugar crystals.
What gorgeous weather!, gushed the Austrian.
Leave the boy alone, I growled at the stranger.
What does a train ride from Cologne to Wetzlar cost?
Taking inflation into account, interest rates are in fact negative.
Bees only sting when they feel attacked.
My rope’s ruptured.
Is there no limit?
It es especially easy for singles.
With a skillful move he jumped over the guardrail.
Call Marcel on WhatsApp.
How much longer will the dryer go?
It requires a valid card and at least one hundred Euros for a bribe.
One is blue, the other one red.
You usually just get waved through at customs.
Can you go to Baden-Baden by car?
Does your father-in-law maybe have such an antique telescope in the attic?
The road is like a patchwork rug.
She wants to drive to Nürnberg.
Turn the radio off.
Did it rain in Regensburg last night?
We’re stopping in Herne, and from there going directly.
Because of the Coriolis force, the wind usually blows from the west rather than from the east.
Ulrike is the one to know that.
Just the nomination itself is an award.
Everyone should have lived through a live phase with very little money.
The trade war strategy paper is subject to the highest level of secrecy.
Do you remember?
What do you expect?
They’re loud and they’re numerous, and they demand bread and circuses.
Parking ramps are a more common damage to bumpers and fenders.
The windows are triple glazed for energy saving reasons.
There is nothing to do at this point.
A good bath requires a lot of foam and a squeaky duck.
If you do not know how to continue, you set up a working group.
Thank you for the presents.
Replacement is provided.
Well, each to their own.
Please send your application to the following address until the thirty-first of October.
Are the obduction results already available?
Some people never grow up.
It depends on the distance.
He lay there motionless and there was a horrified silence.
I dressed up all fancy for her, and now she's not coming!
But for that the tinkerer has a genius idea as well.
Frontal teaching is often criticized as boring and ineffective.
We will bring Pharaoh back to new life!
The chemistry has to be right.
The cards are marked.
We will sit down together because we need to decide how we wil proceed.
The next train to Frankfurt leaves in one hour and thirty minutes
The headline is a pure clickbait.
Mara was positively surprised by the competent support in the library.
We’re currently delayed by 5 minutes but you’ll be able to catch all connecting trains.
Examples are the circle number Pi or the root of two.
Sleep well.
For motivational purposes he promised a leading position to Miss Ahrendt.
I will not name my daughter Brunhilde.
In circumstances like that, you can’t think straight anymore.
Kim’s grandfather died of prostate cancer.
Not everyone proceeds so recklessly.
Paragraphs written entirely in capital letters are an imposition for the reader.
What about Wiesbaden?
I am annoyed with the commercials at private television programs.
What is the purpose of the upper and lower case?
A good beverage shop is no dump.
Many research funds are currently flowing into the field of power electronics.
If the light is lacking the blue part, you get tired easily.
At the end, there is shortage of money.
The focus lies on the core muscles.
Grandma is still lying at the rehabilitation clinic.
Sometimes her assistant is a little slow on the uptake.
The Volga is the longest river in Europe.
Why easy when it can be complicated?
Even brewers take part in the campaign for drinking responsibly.
What’s it about?
Convincing him isn't much of an art!
Here it is mainly about a demonstration of power.
The airbags have already been triggered once!
You were alone in Rostock?
The path looked very easy on the map.
No trader needs to stick to the retail price.
The less energy is provided by the sun, the more has to be taken out of the bottle.
The man does it wrong, but we are waiting for green to come on.
Tight smoke came out of the chimney.
The headquarter of the company is in Ludwigsburg.
Asunción is the capital of Paraguay.
I never used that.
The officer grabbed the phone and dialed a number.
It can't get any faster from pushing, either.
In the former gasometer take a lot of exhibitions place today.
Did you tear a hole in the red hat?
Stefan Schmidt is on the board of the local music society.
Already after such a short time?
Should we take warm-white or cold-white light?
Just as natural immigration and emigration, medical care and so on.
Descriptions about allergic reactions are seldom, but severe.
Today Schalke plays against Hannover Sechsundneunzig in Gelsenkirchen.
I am so angry!
Can you arrange something?
Directly at the beginning of the thriller the director is killed in the backyard.
They ask for astronomical amounts of money for a simple trip.
That was still in the times of Emperor Wilhelm.
On a plate that no one had cleared away were the stinking fish bones from the evening before.
What a drama!
Silke and Marco retreated inconspicuously, so that they could be alone.
Yes, I can say prickly pear.
But you need a substantial reason for that.
The dogs smell something.
If you want access the observation deck, you have to buy something to eat.
Bodybuilders know the phenomena.
Bending over like this is bad for your back.
I want to show you the project that I worked on.
The salesman grabbed a tape measure and held it against the bed.
Something always has to happen first for something to change.
Where would we end up?
In the beer garden by the mountain pasture, you can hear the cow-bells ringing all day.
In the Schengen zone it is enough to have your identity card with you.
From seventeen-hundred-twelve to nineteen-hundred-eight-teen, Saint Petersburg was the capital of the Russian Empire.
It is rather a trapeze.
Only the flux compensator makes time travel possible.
Some gases cause a much stronger greenhouse effect than carbon dioxide.
When the mailman heard the barking, he flinched in fear.
The ship's lift has an airlock both at the top and at the bottom.
Wait up, guys!
Tom is a fast thinker.
Have the relatives been informed yet?
Josef always keeps a water bottle on his night stand.
There is something fishy about it today.
Unit thirteen to head quarters, we need support, over.
Good day, the tickets please.
By bike, it’s only about fifteen minutes from the mud flats to the surf.
It cannot last like this.
Peep, peep, peep, we all love each other.
A crossbow cannot be loaded while running.
Just a little bit more to the front, please!
Activate app.
This is the elixir of eternal youth.
More women should take the initiative.
Lea gave an astonishing whistle.
Valentina now knows how she will solve all her problems.
Take the trash out, please!
Bert Runge wants to build an army of volunteers.
Schnuffi first needs to mark his territory.
After Lara locked herself out, she called the key service, which drilled open her lock.
Anne has no manners.
San Salvador is the capital of El Salvador.
Osnabrück is a nice place
The pus goes away, too.
Does the vehicle have an immobilizer?
Drink cartons are often difficult to recycle.
What is a modulo operation?
I want to carry your child!
Eduard had to perform an emergency break.
The conference ended with an urgent plea to the participants.
Hard to say.
The trial is held in a private hearing.
Other than that, it has nothing to do with environmental conservation.
I would like to buy a ticket to Erfurt
Erika spoiled us with culinary delicacies.
The caps lock key was activated.
Weren't you in Münster last week?
What are the geographic coordinates for Chemnitz?
Bratislava is the capital of Slovakia.
Honey, I think I erased the internet.
You take the ferry from Frederikshavn to Goteborg at seven a.m. in the morning.
Human dignity is untouchable. Even after seventeen o’clock.
Mr. Birkenhagen is hoping for a necktie with Velcro.
When dealing with very high pressures, for safety reasons, it’s better to use hydraulics than pneumatics.
I will always be there for you.
The evening sun will not burn your skin.
Does she really know what she's engaged in?
Some test persons voluntarily received painful electric shocks due to boredom.
The audience follows his every move.
Please go to the third counter!
The apprentice doesn’t have a say anyway.
Clearly it was important to him to mark his territory.
My heart is racing.
We did not understand your matter but your data is safe.
She did not understand my gesture.
Jens burns his own liquor.
In some countries, attempted suicide is punishable by dead.
He doesn't have a clue what's going on there.
When computer scientists write stories, the main actors are usually Alice and Bob.
Actually these aren’t cable clamps, but cable ties.
The sympathetic are meeting like-minded people there.
Behind the clause hidden costs are concealed.
Before this, I did my BA in Mathematics in Jena, Anton said.
“You shouldn’t backbite others so much” Rudolf says to Moni.
My stomach requires meat and cake, so what is the chef looking for so long?
Meta search engines bundle the results of several independent search engines.
Users who decide for this browser explicitly, are attaching value to other things.
Dakar is the capital of Senegal.
Hot drum brakes have a tendency for permanent deformation.
Even though Leipzig has more inhabitants, Dresden is the capital of Saxony.
A proper bicycle rack offers a stable structure to which you can lock your bicycle.
No more war!
Additionally, he was very well-liked among his female coworkers.
Holes at the knees can be patched well by sewing a pants pocket over them.
Trust, but verify.
What is on in the cinema tonight?
Some hundred users were the first to comment to the video.
The table’s have turned.
It cannot be influenced by any computer virus.
If only actions followed these promises.
I wonder whether neural nets for speech recognition start to speak when they dream.
Start the car.
Once more with feeling!
His behavior does not really contribute to de-escalation.
I cannot find a nutrition chart on the label.
There have always been filter bubbles, the difference is that in the past everybody was stuck in the same one.
Due to a suicide attempt, there are obstructions on the route between Hanover and Wolfsburg.
I have to show it to Simon, Heike was shouting excitedly.
You don’t play with food.
That is what I stand for with my name!
I also saw a lot of thistles. That made me happy.
That can’t be changed anymore either.
On her way to uni Luise had to avoid many potholes and puddles.
If a solid turns directly into a gas, it’s called sublimation.
It might just be a fake accent.
Lots of pleasure!
You two are definitely on cloud nine.
Rick Sievers is in possession of all accessories what you can buy.
Go sit on a tack!
Nobody cared to help him.
Between the galaxies there is interstellar law.
Officials are needed to enforce public policy measures.
How long does it take to feel at home after a move?
Now another one of the boys cries out in his sleep, it always startles me.
The first rumors about genetic modified crop are sparking.
Motion capturing was used, for example, to bring Gollum to live.
The train to Wolfsburg has already departed at quarter to three.
The program must be run as an administrator.
That is awesome!
When will we stop dividing the population into Ossis and Wessis?
Hold your horses!
With such a standard phrase, you can never do anything wrong.
If you hurry up you will catch the train to Mainz at quarter past five.
Traditionally, the fat content in dry substance is specified on the package.
I have to talk to the head of operations.
Looking away and sitting out solves no problems.
God knows what this deforestation should be good for.
My gloves always break in the same place.
Instead of the original, a horrific cover was put on.
Some things can be handled at a consulate as well.
The largest part of an atom is the nucleus.
You are to save whatever you can.
The fair of Hannover is the largest in the world.
Phew, though that is painted brightly. Well, who likes it.
Since I use Testo I only had my menstruation once in the very beginning.
Flavor enhancers and other additives have no business on my table.
Long may she live!
If several sheets are handed in, please staple them together.
At first glance the problem seems to be trivial.
They also wanted to sell that story to me.
Werner doesn’t care about that.
Such long charging times are unbearable.
Why isn't kerosene taxed like regular gasoline?
He knows what he is doing there.
Somehow everybody at the parent’s evening was convinced that their child was highly talented.
The freed resources should flow into research and development.
Niko declined politely but decidedly.
Do I still have milk in the refrigerator?
It rarely ever occurs that someone sues their own parents.
I used to be impressed by it, too.
Open fire!
Unburned oil causes sooth.
Did I hear that right?
The useful plants filter and clean the waste water in turn, which can then be lead back.
Everyone’s familiar with this situation.
There is a broken down truck standing on the emergency lane.
Mario left to put a stop to the hustlers’ games.
Can you please tell him somehow that the mortar is taboo?
As a result a Rottweiler attacked a pedestrian.
A biochip is a biochemical method for the parallel measurement of samples.
Gypsy is no longer the politically correct term.
I was abruptly snubbed over the counter.
The cigarette machine wants to see an ID.
The cobalt mine has been abandoned for decades.
Some molecules have a annular topology.
The young age of the sea floor arises from its convection.
A lot is becoming clear to me now.
Since the hangover I know what rohypnol is.
Attached is the general works agreement and the IT user regulations.
Eyes closed and through!
Can you please set the table?
Are we going to an ice cream shop?
In retrospect, she wishes she had waited longer.
Native speakers are welcome.
Let us rather talk about the state of error than the state of research.
Then he stuffed tons of food into his backpack.
The final level is easy.
Plum harvest begins next month.
The second product proved to be a great success.
Thank God, machines keep on working even when we don’t understand them.
Apparently Ingeborg did not process her trauma yet.
How should school look like nowadays?
What exactly is the difference between a religion and a cult?
Upon arrival, the returnees told about the irritating Odyssee .
I don't believe it either.
You’ll get all of us thrown in jail.
Now Justin had to issue a warning after all.
How can one ruin the song like that?
Since February, not a single video has been uploaded.
Doris wants to be hired because she’s competent and not because she fulfills a quota.
Tashkent is the capital of Uzbekistan.
Together with a designer the two of them discuss the furnishing of the kitchen.
At the end of the bike trip everybody were complaining about having sore muscles in the thighs.
Man overboard!
We only halfway set up an appointment.
Do we have any cream left?
Two thousand twenty-two France will already lose in the preliminary round.
In the beginning, I did not like them.
At least not last!
Everyone only one bullet!
Please switch to private mode.
Only aircrafts with at least four engines may fly across the Atlantic.
That has to be enough.
The fabric is interspersed with synthetic fibers.
If objects are placed on the ventilation slots of electrical appliances, they may overheat.
Do you play an instrument?
It has now become Liverpool.
He is tidying out the garage at this moment.
I wouldn’t want to be left alone in a room with that one.
Alfred and Erna had a great time.
Let us build a cave.
Ms. Steen grabbed a snow shuffle and shuffled the entryway to her property.
You don’t need antibiotics. You just need a day of bedrest.
But fiber is also more important than its name suggests.
The twined mustache is his signature feature.
There has to be some space behind the fridge, so the air is able to circulate.
We have all the textiles you can imagine.
Felix is a small dog.
Since it is a developer version, of course not everything is running smoothly.
I think you can still grow.
The acidic substance has been troubling to the mortar properly.
Can a join you?
Twenty four little doors are waiting to be opened.
I wish you best of luck during the search for your superhero.
Olivia makes a pretty confused impression.
Sarajevo is the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We will train your entire body, from head to toe.
As far as I know, Jakob graduated from the ETH in Zurich.
Suggestions for corrections and comments are not possible.
That never happened before.
Please excuse the disturbance.
Is the anesthetic still working?
No one goes running after a train if there’s another one coming in two minutes.
Accurate targeting is required, hence, full concentration.
What is the according eyelet?
The corner points are marked by crosses.
Add to shopping list.
Nevertheless, the measures are a mere drop in the ocean.
In contrast to tears and sweat, saliva is not salty, otherwise you would be thirsty all the time.
The child has already fallen in the well.
What is camera one currently showing?
Can you walk from Essen to Dortmund?
Vilnius is the capital of Lithuania.
How windy is it in Greifswald?
This is just a pure rip-off.
Please carefully separate your garbage.
I am enchanted!
They’re at the rear entrance.
Don’t you see what you did?
Is there a direct connection between Wuppertal and Landshut?
Warsaw is the capital of Poland.
We are in position.
Next stop: Jungerfernstieg.
Siegfried comes from Saxony, but he speaks perfect High German.
All you have to bring is a good mood.
The teaching chair is looking for a student assistant to correct the first years’ homework.
Janina mostly follows the path of her predecessor.
I can’t find the link in the description.
Pauline is not in the mood to make prisoners.
Saskia thinks he's just a puppet controlled by lobbying associations.
Auweia, that gives at least three points in Flensburg.
Light sources with a higher color temperature are generally perceived as cold.
You’ll make your neck hurt sitting like that.
No, Miss, not like that!
Samantha is taking a vuvuzela with her to the stadium.
People have not understood yet, what happened.
One last turn.
Hands where I can see them!
Therefore, the cooling is limiting the maximally possible output.
And so, the described imbalance originates.
In the long term we need a space elevator anyway.
Bolivia’s seat of government is in La Paz.
Abuja is the capital of Nigeria.
Dieter is a coffee junkie.
To undo the action.
You’ll be safe sleeping next to a fire man.
Maroni believes we're coming to her to go eat breakfast.
First off: Is there a woman who has a name?
The association of joyful children demands a right to shopping cart races in supermarkets.
If it glitters it should be valuable.
That would be really amazing.
Arne has used harsh words.
Finally he is brave enough to say it.
It hasn’t rained much over the last couple weeks.
Because copper is expensive and heavy, high voltage power lines tend to be made from aluminum.
In addition to that, I won’t be needed over the next two days.
Cape Town is the seat of South Africa's parliament.
The problem is solvable.
Based on his age, his wife could be his daughter, too.
The next misfortune was already around the corner.
How can one prove that the deficiency already existed before?
The switch has probably a loose contact.
Turn on ventilator.
Smoke is rising on the horizon.
Many have already ingested the recommended dose with a spread at breakfast.
At the first day, I will remind her again.
Because of the new shower head, we’re saving up to forty per cent on water, and gas as well, in the end.
The Ottoman customs are enchanted.
During the preach basically someone is sniffing the nose loudly.
Republic escape was difficult and risky.
This is a very well known example of optical illusion.
This is a matter of national security!
The current is so weak that swimmers do not even notice it.
Phil complains about stomach pain.
I am taking the kids to chess today. You will drive next week, ok?
He’s making a hollow back again.
Do you know Salzwedel a bit?
You are responsible for the data processing.
There's a different set of etiquette there.
Do not use the lift in case of emergency.
Mechanically or electronically powered loaders are called compressors.
For people who eat meat the food won’t be as digestible.
Do you want a drink with your meal?
In order to avoid taxes, the Group has built up a complicated network of subcontractors.
A rather valuable one at that.
The development is moving rapidly.
Do you know where my key is?
A power of two is the predominant quantum in computer science.
You can spare yourself the fiddling if you do it like me.
You shouldn’t mix up women’s suffrage and ladies’ choice.
Be sure to remember that!
The people do not have more than a bowl of rice to eat a day.
Nor the piercing of the ears or other parts of the body.
That cannot be applied to our problem.
Set the alarm clock for twelve o’clock.
The city map is apparently outdated.
Today thousands of policemen are in action again to keep the derby of the north of FC St. Pauli against Hansa Rostock secure.
We just had bad luck.
In the first years the bridge was made out of wood.
She has only good intentions.
That's certainly not good for the shock absorbers.
When Jürgen still worked in Heilbronn he used the bike path next to he Neckar daily.
Toni rubbed a balloon on his hair, making it stand on end.
The results of a twin study in Belgium indicates that the genetic influence is very low.
I would like to know, who to monetize this platform.
Incorrect cleaning causes micro-scratches and the glass becomes milky.
But to get dressed, he needs the help of a nurse.
Please make a note here if you have any allergies or intolerances.
Has everyone signed up in the list now?
German synchronized speakers are often criticized for no reason.
The comb is missing some teeth.
What’s so bad about that?
Now there is quite a lot of good literature with trans characters.
Torge chose the seat directly on the wheel case.
Well, those are fantastic views.
She is hitting the pedal as far as it will go.
The one-eyed gnome probably wants to make life difficult for us.
The groundskeeper draws the lines.
Public transport trains are operating on a tight schedule.
A giraffe also has only seven cervical vertebra.
A brain tumor can be observed through MRI.
The camshaft controls when which valve is opened.
Corinna feels dazzled by the xenon light.
Can I in some way make it up to you?
And another elephant race.
You must be able to stand it.
What is that in Italian?
Definitely no.
The treasure contains of golden coins and sparkling gems.
Tomorrow, I’m going to the vet and have them put my weaker self to sleep.
Yogurt could also be written with Y in the past.
The song is still as bad as it was.
I don’t care who started it.
Actually, it’s a mutt.
I live in Offenbach.
Does this train also stop at central station?
Bull's eye!
That is all deducted from your time.
Greed is the trigger of all evil.
Congratulations, you won!
The Capital of the Cook Islands is Avarua.
Do we have a spare wheel?
Katrin would like to take this opportunity to talk to potential employers.
Fridolin had an unfair advantage.
If you are reading this, please pay a compliment to the next person you meet.
The dried mucosa make us susceptible to infections.
Do we have more plastic than fish in the ocean now?
Nora has not said anything context-related yet.
As soon as Christmas is over, the supermarkets are already adding Easter decorations to their assortment.
A lot of effort for a small gift, don’t you agree?
Do I have to transfer in Gelsenkirchen?
The campsite now also got warm showers and a changing room.
Port of Spain is the capital of Trinidad and Tobago.
According to surveys, the subjective perception of safety increased.
The distribution is visualized here with a histogram.
He removed all duplicates.
Is AI supposed to be intelligent or human-like?
The fast-food restaurant chain is suspected of spying on its employees.
Then he is checking the bill.
Why isn't the paper perforated?
Every computer has an IP-address.
Experienced adventurers read the clock based on the sun.
As was mentioned at the start, it’s not just some group of amateurs.
Ergonomics were not taken into account.
Marina is almost obsessed with the idea.
Exactly!
Does Frankfurt have more inhabitants than Gießen?
A medicine man who approves of blood brotherhood does not know anything about medicine.
An old idiom in colloquial language conveys this wisdom to us.
The dude over there behaves noticeably like he doesn’t want to be noticed.
The instructions of the flight crew should be followed.
I just wanted to make sure again.
Chemnitz used to be an important economic center during the DDR.
You are a chicken!
Do you have some of that stuff on you?
Where is Bayreuth?
Doha is the capital of Katar.
San Marino is the capital of San Marino.
Please pet the cat.
Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the Himalayas and the highest in the world.
We use a pseudorandom generator.
What can one do against hysteresis loss?
Do you have a sharpener?
Searching for flights to Hamburg.
Don’t take this personally.
I think that Stefanie secretly thought something like that.
Nonsense, character is overrated, Ulf argued macho-like.
Is there a direct train connection between Krefeld and Nordhorn?
The evidence is conclusive.
Snow chains are only rarely a necessity in cities.
They put a lot of brain lubricant into the steering electronics.
Nobody knows this for a fact.
Why is cream so hard to get?
I think it’s great, personally.
After a couple of wash cycles the washing instructions have faded.
There’s room for more.
On your to-do list there are still many things.
If your pocket money isn’t enough, you can always deliver newspapers.
If you want to harvest later, you must sow today.
Nick was spluttering with ideas.
The sea level changes on a regular basis due to the tides.
The sound came from the basement.
The visits of the fox stopped ever since I have a dog.
The city detected a military threat from the East.
The tax was collected from anyone who wanted to enter the city during the festival.
Between Aachen and Baden-Baden no subway is going.
There used to be turf there.
But now he has a realization.
This spelling is new to me.
Sara speaks Klingon.
One after another.
The caretaker is all we need.
We now want to put a stop to this once and for all.
The press secretary talked about unfortunate isolated cases.
We’re tracking down a myth.
There was a crash on the A-seven, Neumünster in the direction of Flensburg.
Aha, so that’s how it is.
São Tomé is the capital of São Tomé und Príncipe.
Mushrooms are no plants.
Oh please, that’s ridiculous!
She has to blow out all thirteen candles on the birthday cake in one breath.
The dramaturgy of the play can hardly be surpassed.
One cuts through, the other one decides.
For experienced bikers distances over one hundred kilometers a day are no challenge.
Do you have anything to drink?
Breathe in and slowly out.
It seemed as if they were placed there for this exact purpose.
The blower is generally run by the emanating off-gases.
Is Gustav the brother of Hauke?
It looks like a pimp’s car.
Therefore, the number multiplies.
I want to meditate now.
Just because it is based on plants solely does not mean it is not dangerous.
We walked the upper circular route.
The map is not oriented to the north.
In space, there is an almost perfect vacuum.
Maybe you can also take a piece off him.
Colleague Berger would finally like to draw a clean break.
My eyes are welling up.
The first weekend in April gave us wonderful motorbiking weather.
In statics, you only look at balanced tasks.
In moments like these, you wish that you were a woman.
You are usually not like that!
Some of the protagonists are just very tenacious.
Even small objects can really hurt when they fall from a significant height.
The quality of the data should be or remain as high as possible.
Erik built a paper plane that can fly loops.
Is there a specific sequential order that you follow?
I want to buy a ticket to Wuppertal.
Under the motto: Smoking against racism.
He is crazy.
He sipped the hot cocoa with cream with relish.
But Lothar already had his finger on the trigger.
What exactly is a desert, actually?
Another climbing hall is going to be opened in Genf soon.
Not like that, friend!
He wants to eat hummer once in his life.
The notebooks made from one hundred percent recycled paper bear the Blue Angel logo.
Can you eat the bowl too?
Many clotheslines were stretched in the dry cellar.
The local press surrounded the mayor in order to get an interview with him.
That looks like a typical predetermined breaking point.
Communicate with me!
The guy is off his rocker!
Can you recommend us a pub?
Berlin is the capital of Germany.
In the off-peak season hotels are cheaper.
You talk too much for me.
Edmund moved abroad.
Back then, opium used to sell in China like hot cakes.
Is the coffee still warm at all? ,Daniel asks.
The headquarter of the company is in Bonn.
Are you sure you didn’t fill up with diesel?
The easiest way to explain the difference between tomography and projection is with graphs.
Your package is ready to be picked up.
I can’t make everything up.
That comes with a free can of sauerkraut.
No, that's not okay at all!
That it is completely useless for.
The THC is the best-known active ingredient in cannabis.
Isn't this technique awesome?
Singles have to work and do their households simultaneously.
Annoyed the cabdriver gave up.
Now we are rolling out the dough with a rolling pin.
What is on TV today?
Lou wasn’t able to get back to herself.
The carcasses of dead horses are still lying around.
Training camp, here we go!
She flouted the control center’s instructions.
Is there a flight connection between Tübingen and Celle?
Just ignore them.
From the nightly storm, branches lay everywhere on the paths.
I don’t have to do anything.
At supersonic speeds, the ejector seat is not a good idea.
Therefore he was called to the stand.
Is there any sour cream left in the fridge?
Now Inge turns the game around.
Julia felt unchallenged.
The roller coaster is braked by an eddy current brake.
Do not be so egoistic!
She wants to complete the order process.
Hello!
So the investigators went to the morgue.
It is hell and heaven at the same time.
She thinks it’s great.
Heidi took the exquisite bottle out of his hand angrily.
Let us smoke a pipe of peace.
The magic potion makes you invincible for fifteen seconds.
Now it's getting serious.
You can keep those few dimes.
Who asked for your opinion?
Knecht Ruprecht gets his tail out.
Whether this is applicable, however, depends largely on the teacher.
Because I did not hear anything.
Subordinate clauses are separated by commas.
Did the train get cancelled again?
I know.
Let's go to the garden center and buy some seedlings.
He directed his telescope towards the document and tried to catch a glimpse of it.
“Semmeln” is a Bavarian term for bread rolls.
A slave came running to fan Cleopatra.
You cannot measure mathematically what’s fair until you introduce a currency.
No, yes, oh.
Are you turning the volume down to room volume, Albert? his mother screamed.
Your efforts weren’t made in vain.
Because of advances in medicine and the aging population, the need continues to increase.
One does not have to see everything as a competition.
Is there a tram in Saarbrücken?
After Selina has warmed up, she is very flexible.
The other day Uschi thought she was going to have a heart attack.
Each of them fits perfectly.
When it comes to Ms. Siebert, you can never really tell whether she’s walking her dog or her dog is walking her.
There is no scientific evidence that proves food combining has any effect.
Nobody had mobile phones in the fourteenth century.
Six hundred years after its foundation, the city had the largest number of construction sites.
Istanbul was already the capital of the Ottoman Empire.
Lahore is Pakistan’s second biggest city.
The second bridge was financed by the city to raise taxes.
Between October and Easter a car should be equipped with winter tires.
They have generated a Whatsapp Group for the new development area.
His brazen attitude easily has him go ballistic.
Post-nominations are not excluded.
Grandpa was sitting on the park bench feeding the ducks.
Bismarck was shot at repeatedly, but he survived.
The Wankel engine is unlikely to become established in passenger cars.
All flight from and to Malaga have been cancelled.
The DNA replication is taking place, uhm, semi-conservatively.
Two out of the three parking garages are full.
Let us treat you nicely with our Wellness program.
Become a cashier and give it a go!
I’m having a deja vu.
Uncertain and with school bags in hand, the first grade students entered the classroom.
Can’t you de-blur the video afterwards?
Panama-City is the capital of Panama.
Did anyone tell you about this?
God sees everything.
Incredible how much some people are willing to pay for alternative medicine!
A proper start is worth half the race.
Your strengths include the ability to work in a team and assertiveness.
Tourists wave at the people at the shores.
What do we have in the pantry?
It seems a whole generation is not aware of privacy.
My guest room is still free.
Very obliging, Ms. Zabel!
The stuff from the pipe must have really blown her away.
Other identifiers such as stolen personal ID cards make it difficult for the investigating authorities.
What can I do if I have fever?
Twenty meters away there is a zebra crossing.
Buy two for the price of three!
There’s a mnemonic to help remember whether starboard or portside is on the right.
The export to the play-station unfolded as a real hit.
Moritz, you’re a true genius, Manuela told him in veneration.
It’s a molecule that consists of three oxygen atoms.
She darts along like a rocket ship.
In you return, you have to meet us a bit closer to the middle.
After she had taken the secret path through the forest, she was pricked all over by mosquitos.
I have to go to the toilet first.
You shouldn’t wrap foods that contains acid in aluminum foil.
To be honest I am not too keen on it.
Do you know what the animal you are currently eating looks like alive?
Tarek bit into his wholegrain rye bread.
Then it rumbled inside and there was a jolt.
The building was temporarily closed off with a construction fence.
All she has to do is shake long enough and she'll have still water.
Conventional cars have four-cycle engines.
Mrs. Rahn calls it a stroke of genius.
What’s going on on Twitter right now?
Insert the second CD now.
Meteorologists predict a mild winter.
Be a bit more lenient.
The costs for the cultivation are manageable according to my calculation.
People perceive Rayleigh scattering as very beautiful.
Herbert opens the toilet tank in order to check what’s up there.
Fine, but who determines this?
Just a suggestion.
The robbers managed to escape from the crime scene undiscovered.
I would like to have a cheeseburger without cheese.
Do you write it like that?
In any case a hard threat.
Theresa proudly tells about the bike she got for her birthday.
Excuse me, does this train drive to Rosenheim?
In the past, they would have spanked our butts! Rüdiger exclaimed in anger.
Drink whatever you can because it raises the spirits!
The display on the screen has attracted their focus.
Unbelievable!
The city of Buxtehude really does exist.
Reset dialog status.
Overall, the criticism was not very constructive.
Please keep the medicines out of the reach of children.
Sarah, I do not know you like that!
He pulled out his camera and captured the screen output on a photo.
Malabo is the capital of Equatorial Guinea.
Karsten only cares about money.
Apart from that Marianne still has a roll of cookies in her bag.
In the long run, your idea wasn’t very wise after all.
The cup is not dishwasher safe.
This twenty million euro project is now completed.
The image enhancement mode reacts very sensitively to overexposure.
Unfortunately, I was not in the area.
The boat is about to capsize.
Soon it will start getting dark by 4 o’clock.
Oh no!
That invention could be the end of all diseases.
Naypyidaw is the capital of Myanmar.
Bogotá is the capital of Colombia.
Harare is the capital of Simbabwe.
The kind pastor took care of the orphan.
Perhaps Claudia can arrange something.
Annika has hooked a carp.
The trouble with the customer support has caused him some grey hair.
Togo is part of the West African Economic Community.
You will reach the destination in five hours and seventeen minutes.
Who's supposed to be paying for gas today?
Paul got a bloody nose today in kindergarten.
That’s enough of a reason!
Or a tail rotor balances out the counter-torque.
The city was once very famous for their annual festivals.
On the fifteenth of May, there is a soap box derby happening.
One of the sheep is pregnant and hence, cannot run fast enough to escape.
I think, that is a cultural thing.
And another sentence.
What can you see in that picture?
Unsaturated fatty acids are healthier but become rancid faster.
In the shelf is a tea with cranberry taste.
The air consist of over seventy percent of nitrogen.
The anchor t-bar was replaced by a four-seated chair.
Please safe.
When garbage molds, Methan is being produced.
My dad can conjure.
When is he finally going to grow up?
The subway does not wait for us.
All hell’s lose there.
Yes, I do.
Oops, that was the wrong password.
Is she well-known internationally?
B-K-A has many computer specialists for digital forensics.
It is probably depending on the genre.
Hanging from a pipe, he drops down on top of his opponent.
Try swapping out the radio module.
Can a forced ceasefire be considered peace?
But only if she has a good reason.
The dog has to go out again soon. How about a round of bike riding?
Across the wall, there are lanterns at a distance of fourteen meters from each other.
Should I bring anything from Rewe?
I leave that to your fantasy.
I want to get you out of this lawlessness.
Can I ride with the buggy?
He easily gets worked up against others.
Someone poisoned the drink.
When you recognize the sun burn it is already too late.
Janina intentionally phrased that statement as a double entendre.
On one stand they sell waffles in order to enhance the association’s fund.
Molly immediately grabbed a pack of cigarettes.
They use the nature and behavior of their environment and even build tools.
Thereby you have done a disservice to us.
From here, we take over control.
I still have to find an agreement with the secretary.
This part was censored in the German version.
What does that mean in Danish?
Frozen fuel lines are a thing of the past thanks to electric heating.
Is there still a need to talk regarding this topic?
One would be happy with relegation, I think.
I wish I could clone myself.
Can you see? Exact eighty centimeters.
In principle, the thing runs wear-free.
Christopher feels as if his honor has been violated.
Advertising there is therefore twice as worthwhile.
When there is a lot of rain the retention basin expands enormously.
I want to write a message to Frederik.
In the middle of June, central Europe was struck by chilly temperatures.
No, we were watching TV in secret and accidentally set the rug on fire.
How is the weather in Greifswald?
It’s fascinating that earthworms and starfish can just regenerate body parts that they’ve lost.
Dark clouds are descending.
Laundry rooms need to have good airflow to prevent the growth of mold.
If you want to sell your vehicle, please call me.
The rescue lane allows emergency services to get to the scene quickly.
The allergy sufferers are excited about the new inbuilt pollen filter.
For the residents the forest is also an area for recreation.
Could I please have a piece of bread?
When it got really hot this September, chocolate santas melted down on store shelves.
Sequence of the link to the original application file.
What would happen if all people jumped into the air at the same time?
Cabs can stop in the second row.
Their kinetic energy would be otherwise lost.
Replace peer pressure with tradition and it sounds much more positive.
In most cases, this works out rather badly than right.
The director was sleeping.
Attention!
I could give you a ride from Freiburg to Hirschberg at least.
She scratches the blackboard with her fingernails.
The amount should be transferred to my bank account mentioned below.
How do you imagine it?
Even Benedikt has to look up the expression.
The redshift can be partly explained by the Doppler effect.
Over the connection the computers can send packages to each other.
It is like in the kindergarten.
Relevant casinos are being frequented more and more.
But together they are a class team.
We are caught in the eternal circle of revenge and vengeance.
He was able to pocket a CD of organ music during his visit.
But the 12- and 14-year-old kids speak German without an accent.
Ask the second-hand vehicle dealer of your trust.
Sports magazines give credit to the Rugby player’s decent performance.
Still, it seemed like a last meal to me.
That does not necessarily apply figuratively.
Now everything is pretty quiet, except for the storm that’s raging outside.
The teacher was once again overwhelmed by the computer and asked a student for help.
Is that part of the commonly accepted practice?
So more fuel can be injected.
A karate fighter will never use the same trick twice.
He spontaneously changed his route to Finkenwerder.
She has changed the first letters of two successive words.
Choose features in the context menu.
Every child has the right to be wanted and to grow up in a stable relationship.
Do not lean over the barrier.
The southern side of the office building is completely made of glass.
Out of boredom, Bärbel checked to see if she had any new notifications.
As the department manager one should always have an open ear for his employees.
No beer before four!
I hope you have a great stay.
Hetze always speaks against minorities and marginal groups.
Yet he faces a Herculean task.
Petra wants to buy a round of drinks.
Dim lights!
It’s right next to the train station.
Please express yourself in a more sophisticated way.
Human beings are bad random numbers generators.
Scissors, stone, paper.
The firewall is pitted like a swizz cheese.
A current,strong wind from the back makes it easier to drive up the mountain.
Video games were generally demonized quickly.
But now I have to read my young daughter a bedtime story.
Collectors find it hard to part with things.
Most of the jobs were awarded underhand.
Wow, you can clearly pronounce the names of these cities!
The inlet pipe is not immersed in water.
Out of pity some pretended like they did not like the food.
If you hurry, you'll get the quarter past five train to Munich.
How warm will it be the day after tomorrow?
He knows the other side.
Office chairs and headphone cords are natural enemies.
Before speaking about statistical trends, you should clarify the difference between percentages and percentage points.
Is there a traffic jam on the way to work?
Absolutely, he explained with a meaningful look.
You won’t believe what Lora managed to stuff in her hiking backpack.
What doesn’t kill you, makes you stronger.
No, he does not cry. He is moaning terribly.
Gimme five!
The WiFi router, the modem or the telephone server?
The school subject media competence is demanded for a long time.
Mumbai is the largest city in India.
Are you able to interrupt your work for a second to take a group picture?
Yawning is infectious even over the phone.
We are standing up for increased transparency in politics.
In his hands Herbert held his termination without notice.
In the own native tongue the writing is a lot easier.
Patricia warned her fellow players.
It's not a pleasure, it's a drinking competition!
The Christmas trees will be collected on the sixth January.
We closed off all exits.
The principle is divide and conquer.
I don’t feel like joking.
I need a new book.
His naive comments imply a lack of life experience.
If you have to play the hero, at least don't put any of your fellow men in danger.
Why are people listening to the magistrate?
My great-grandmother used to say that.
Just because he’s at home, doesn’t mean he has nothing to do.
What does that mean in French?
With their combined efforts, they just about made it.
Ended well, all's well.
Statistically, this happens to every house once in a lifetime.
At a certain point, quitting is more harmful than continuing to smoke.
Then I would take the telephone joker.
Get on your horse and take me to the dreamland paradise.
Many national flags are made up of the colors blue, white and red.
Air planes became successful as late as one stopped taking the nature as model for the constructing.
Not bad at all for a beginner.
If this snail pace continues, we’ll still be here tomorrow.
My grandfather is eighty five and completely healthy.
I am from Herne.
Robin behaves like an elephant in a china shop.
What am I doing wrong?
The minstrel sings his song accompanied by a lute.
Person A doesn’t know what they should give to Person B.
Mistakes are human.
Some people don’t feel pain.
Unfortunately, there are some defectors.
The shipping company pays the ridiculous fines at the port management from the Porto check-out.
The table would be wiped perfectly without the tablecloth.
Go downstairs and help your father!
Tiredness should be fought with sleep, not with caffeine.
She wants to go to Dresden
The driver strictly keeps to the OpenGL specification.
The mass of an atomic nucleus is created predominantly by the interaction of the particles with each other.
I’m really hungry now.
We have a mole.
When will someone finally tell the bumble bees that they can't fly according to the laws of aerodynamics?
The quadcopter is the multi-terrain vehicle of the air.
It’s obvious from the forum that it is Friday.
Renewables would not meet the world's energy needs if per capita consumption were as high as it is in Europe.
Perth was the capital of the Kingdome of Scotland.
Do you mean the beanpole at the table across from us?
It itches like crazy.
Pencils have been made with graphite, not with lead, for a long time now.
As a single person you don't stand a chance against a group of three adults who are also armed.
Ulrike admits, without the peep I couldn’t park backwards.
What should I do with a car in the big city? Gregor asked a rhetorical question.
The Canary Islands belong to Spain.
Please add this to the calendar.
Gerd suffers from selective mutism.
Arnold wiped a bead of sweat from his brow.
Before reunification, Saigon was the capital of South Vietnam.
What movies can you watch at the cinema in Giessen today?
Does neonicotinoid kill bees?
He is basically a foundling.
She's been talking about diversity and inclusion all day.
No matter how good you are in mathematics, you will find a stressing problem effortlessly.
Do you have something planned tonight or this weekend?
Do we still have sour cream in the fridge?
When she drinks caffeine, she gets hyperactive.
I happen to know my way around such machines, because I already have one, he continued.
Consider it as an investment.
Does it say anything in the log file?
His text message to Katrin, Sören ended with a very telling ilysm.
In the last level one encounters the ultimate fighter.
For decency's sake, she is forcing herself back into the corset of societal expectations.
If any questions come up, you’re welcome to send me an email.
Poppy always crumbles like that.
Merle sets the metronome to one hundred and twenty beats per second.
Lawyer Mielke has an appointment today.
As far as I know, it has something to do with mysticism.
The case is practical in that it can be opened without a screwdriver.
Hey, we had an agreement!
We keep our fingers crossed for you!
Do I have any rice left?
Looking for trains to Hannover.
Now it is called Federal Voluntary Service.
She inhaled deeply and had to cough.
Please put on pants.
And who will take care of the pets then?
With mental arithmetic she is trying to distract herself mentally.
I would also like to have a tentacle beard, with that I can play the organ.
Make sure that the jacket is breathable when buying!
But would you really like to stay young forever?
How cute!
The party is missing a charismatic speaker at the top.
Don't hear the shot.
Sprinkling fat is to be expected, so we better put on an apron.
The heading doesn't match the text at all.
Cut off and do not eat burned parts.
How many people live in Jena?
On the third hand a magnifying glass with a small lamp is attached.
Natasha finally admitted that she is living illegally in Germany.
The one who is bathing in the Northern Sea should be aware of the tides.
As soon as Bimetall cools down, the electric circuit will close down.
The mummy in the casket was still in good condition.
Please reverse this action.
We want to end this misery and so we open the pantry.
Don’t judge him too harshly.
Support your argumentation with a few facts and figures.
Velcro fasteners are very practical for small children.
Psychologists take care of patients with mental suffering.
Do you have wax crayons for me too?
Read what's in the thought bubble!
Do knives and forks have to be matched to each other?
Only ones that can be answered Yes or No.
I almost missed her.
All strings come together in this machine.
He searched the whole collection.
What was it about?
The computer periodically compares the actual state with the target state and, adjusts it, if necessary.
The moment is calculated as the cross product of radius and power.
How did it go again?
Your room looks like a pigsty.
Unfortunately, two of the satellites are not in their intended orbit.
You shouldn't put anything on the stove that isn't heat-resistant.
I decided on a glass cabinet instead of shelves because it won’t collect dust.
The edges have to be smoothed out.
At the end of their work. the bricklayers still had a few bricks left over.
All over the North, the temperatures are currently close to freezing.
In the end, every new freedom leads to new disagreements.
The Ural mountains are the border between Europe and Asia.
When was the last oil change?
Is the bread gluten-free?
Yet you don’t want to forego this accomplishment.
The three aggregate states are solid, liquid and gaseous.
Both of them stole kiwis on a grand scale from the plantation.
You can never know that!
The city was captured for the second time.
You must have ants in your pants!
They’ve been circling the cutter the whole time.
If you have enough canned food in stock, it is possible to compensate it.
Keep this in the back of your mind.
Should have, could have, would have.
The translation of the text is vague all around.
When Matthias speaks, he talks straight.
Everyone counted on someone else taking care of it.
It would be a match n regard of the symptoms.
With the cigarette you are a lot more dangerous for your child than I am.
The harbor clown with the accordion is singing old sea shanties.
In big crowds people are flocking inside the musical hall.
The best hit is highlighted in bold.
They accelerate very little mass in very high speeds.
Do not be so altruistic!
Well thought through!
Do you sometimes have doubts?
The place could catch fire.
It is enough as a temporary solution though.
The season for the pro was over after a cross-band rupture.
If they abuse each other, that means thy have love for each other.
To hide the remote control is a bad crime in Schubert’s living room.
The chorus comes between the verses.
How certain is it really that the sun will rise tomorrow?
Is intent aligned with micro body movements?
If you click on it, an error message should pop up.
Show me every quick charge station in a surrounding of fifty kilometers.
Please do not do that!
Brace yourself for a bone-breaking job.
Justin has a song stuck in his head.
Jessica holds the reins now.
Do you have my hearing aid?
Do you know much about linear algebra?
Is Bottrop near here?
Our planet is geologically active.
EMS systems are also used for fitness training.
Mbabane is the capital of Eswatini.
Victoria is the capital of the Seychelles.
Wet pavement can be quite slippery.
Do you have pills for iron deficiency?
Fritz Frick folds fifty fives for Ms. Fink.
The burglars have a look around for a bit and then specifically shot the cameras.
Cropped images are worthless.
The retiree pushed a vehicle out of his garage that looked like it came from the stone age.
Five minutes ago, we broke through the sound barrier, now we are approaching Mach two.
Time’s running out.
Please throw towels that need to be washed on the floor.
Write to your Representative.
No, we can't do that.
How can I change the font size?
The experienced hiker can find porcini mushrooms, chanterelles or similar in the forest.
I'm talking about a real newspaper, not some tabloid paper.
It seems, Karin Lindner is referring to the illustration at the top.
The manufacturing also leaves a good impression.
Pauline got curious now.
And another standard that wants to replace all previous standards.
The cemetery path has now been renamed after some dead politician.
Until then a lot of time will pass.
No one is immune to that.
The valuables have been temporarily confiscated.
Using sonar, they found the path of a channel that wasn’t marked on the sea map.
Who will make it onto the podium?
Although we don’t understand a single word of the text, it’s fun to sing along.
It’s a shame what happened.
Trier is the oldest city in Germany and was initially founded by the Romans.
The dragon burped and yellow clouds of sulfur escaped from his muzzle.
It’s concerning how many children are fat these days.
So be it.
Benedikt hates when things are not at the right place.
The report is a grist to the mill of nuclear power opponents.
Alas, I don’t have exact change.
She maliciously concealed it.
That is all Mrs. Färber can think of at this moment.
What software do you use to create your poster?
The coolest thing is the public’s spontaneous reaction.
People may be traumatized for different reasons.
Have you registered for the people's triathlon yet?
Mister Jost had learned quickly to outwit the machine.
The mass speed control has been announced for a long time.
If you work as a data bank are you then also considered to be a banker?
Is the sun shining in Solingen today?
No joking.
What do they want from me again?
The antibiotic has to be taken orally daily.
The fruit should be kept in a cool, dry place.
Everything that he dictates needs to be typed in the computer by his secretary later.
If you cause trouble, I can take your rights away at any time.
Thus you should combine both and undergo the voodoo doll acupuncture.
Uncle Dieter took out his welding machine and began to work.
The cheapest products nowadays basically only consist of plastic.
I was offered to be included in the witness protection program, under the condition that I give testimony.
Did you know that poem already?
Hi, do you need a consultation too?
Thank god we still have an ace upon our sleeves.
If radio contact to a passenger aircraft is interrupted, two interceptors take off routinely.
I’m sorry, I overslept.
Next time I will not hitch a ride with Gundula Kircher.
I read this out, and you do the beatbox in the background, ok?
Why do mean and women get along so bad?
My money is safest under the cushion.
For four years I've sat innocent in jail.
They sold the findings for a few shillings.
You shouldn't let your opponent enter the penalty area undisturbed in the first place.
We should leave it at that.
A console made out of massive beech stood in front of the rows of seat.
What does that mean in Romanes?
Yes, I’ve tried that as well but it’s pointless.
Replenishment is needed at the pasta counter.
Sleepy, he rubbed his eyes.
The Christmas story starts with census.
Look in the legend.
Can I also get a lollipop?
Do not get upset.
Now a completely new topic.
Overall, however, the procedure is mature.
Do you even know what you have started there?
Imagine that you stayed offline for two full weeks.
How much longer do we have to wait for you now?
Empty the dish washer!
The pine stripes push each other to be the bad guy.
The color fades away, once waterdrops falls on it.
But now the deputy mayor suddenly strikes a completely different note.
One already uses electric starters.
We don't have such luxury problems.
There is no Wikipedia article on the meaning of death.
Let’s invite friendly people and create an open and friendly atmosphere.
The People’s Navy was part of the National People’s Army.
Thank you very much for your interest in our study.
Let’s forget about the kinetic components for now.
You are at the beginning of a long journey.
They’re impressive to watch.
With thousands of these glasses one can earn assets before the next total solar eclipse.
Nobody has ever asked me for cigarettes sober before.
There are a couple open questions.
Most of the germs are killed in the stomach by the acid.
One can imagine a DNS server similar to a telephone book.
Until it explodes one day.
Murder is not time-barred.
Is it normal to better get along with your co-workers than with your wife?
Detlef faltered in the process.
I'm a character in a computer game who changes her voice every now and then.
The insurance wants money from me again.
Repeat this action.
All products, except for the organic ones, are in plastic boxes.
It’s not easy to find a new job at age fifty-six.
The train to Frankfurt am Main has already departed at quarter to three.
The only thing that helps is to close your eyes and always look ahead.
After Tokyo, Yokohama and Osaka are Japan’s largest cities.
Now we’re in quite a mess.
There should be an ice scraper in the glovebox.
That’s a really big difference.
If the answer is negative, the next one is next.
The guy's not even democratically legitimated!
The choice of partner is a tiresome topic when it comes to humans.
If that comes out, heads will roll, I can guarantee you that.
Watch the game in full length here!
Please remove
Hold the banister tight.
To contradict the use of your data for advertising purposes, an informal mail is sufficient.
Martine wants to take revenge on Fabienne.
Okay, let’s start again from the beginning.
Jacqueline's already dead drunk too.
No, the runners are made out of solid stainless steel.
The boss has already been warned.
And now the positive messages comes.
The prices will rise by ten to fifteen percent respectively.
Having said that, the genetically modified seeds gave us a bountiful harvest.
To do this would require a major in Parliament.
Rosehips contain an itchy powder.
And so it comes to the fatal circular motion.
These are the rules.
The two pieces of wood were glued together and left untouched to dry for several hours.
What an impudence!
He’s watching some documentary on the legal growing of cannabis.
My thoughts exactly!
The screensaver shows a futuristic car.
Only the European Council can delay the policy now.
Diplomacy requires a great deal of fine feeling.
The set of real numbers also includes numbers that cannot be written as a fraction.
In a pinch, the parking disk can also be used as an ice scraper.
Please open your atlas.
The Japanese state guest hinted a bow.
Should I put some gel in your hair?
How many kilometers are between Kempten and Fürth?
Anne is really proud of the fact that for the first time she has made a backward handspring.
I don’t know why she’s wriggling like that.
Later models offered a fixed adjustable angle.
I’m afraid there’s not a lot to gain from there.
Only idiots but the game was over anyway.
Do you know what you have to do?
A new go-kart track has now been opened in the industrial estate.
Manuela makes it no secret that she does not think much of the compromise.
Your indifference is responsible for that, Timo railed.
You can't master a language by pure memorization.
Let me give you a hug!
The board computers used in the Apollo missions had less processing power than calculators nowadays.
Mr. Schulze is preparing a project for the confirmands.
You do not really want to cut off at security.
This displaces the lighter, warmer air.
Think about where we can store the clothes.
Who is coming there on the bike?
YouTube is already doing it today.
You like the setting.
The text can be adapted to our purposes.
Firstly, the letters are sorted by Postal codes.
What does that say about me?
My neighbor’s tarantula escaped from its terrarium.
No, I will first make myself a cup of coffee now.
Everything is exactly regulated and will be respected.
Therefore, the Croatian had reached the lowest point of his career.
What kind of a car do you drive?
It always looks like the bus driver is turning the steering wheel too late.
I hear and forget, I see and remember, I act and understand.
It is a perfidious business model to exploit the artificially-driven fear of people to make a profit.
is the human part or opposite of nature?
He is a real fighter by nature.
As a matter of fact, the stock exchange is no betting office.
That is absolutely ridiculous.
This compartment is for cleaning agents.
This distribution channel is not yet known for a single disease.
The rotation of gradient fields is always zero.
It looks like a pigsty in here.
Is Rostock further away from here than Potsdam?
The enjoyment of alcohol is forbidden in this building.
The boy should learn to protect himself.
Rhubarb only tastes good on cake.
A question that everyone here probably agonizes over.
That is Rock ‘n’ Roll, dear Freddy.
Which health insurance company are you with?
Misconduct like that can be publicly rebuked, but it doesn’t have to be.
I haven’t read any of her books.
From nineteen twenty two to nineteen forty Kaunas was the capital of Lithuania.
Rügen is Germany’s biggest island.
Several times throughout its history, Nanjing was the capital of China.
The Rhein is one of the most heavily trafficked waterways in the world.
Phnom Penh is the capital of Cambodia.
It’s probably calculated that most people do not look at the receipt.
It says there: you are our one hundred thousandth customer.
That’s why the shape of a submarine for instance resembles that of a whale.
Mr. Kluge is just making a fool of himself with that.
With this her fate is sealed.
Let’s take a break.
Maren acted out of self-defense.
Laura did not know what it was, but something within her told her that it was the truth.
Khartoum is the capital of Sudan.
With squeaking wheels, Karsten managed to bring the car to a stop just in time.
It squeaks terribly.
The only thing even safer than our pension is rising rents.
Is he knowledgeable?
Can I leave it like that?
For some a heroic deed, for others a mortal sin.
Don’t ignore the smoke in your own kitchen just because your neighbor’s house is on fire.
Samuel, shouldn’t you be doing your homework?
And now a couple words about the most recent events.
This is a badly camouflaged advertisement.
Protestants and Catholics are equally invited to the sacrament.
That was not a serious comment.
How many camels is my daughter worth?
Good question, how much is the can of tuna?
Feodora bought herself a slackline.
Lieutenant Fischer acted based on his own judgement and thereby violated the regulations from the very top.
Johanna meets up with the others girls almost every Saturday.
Is it necessary to drink to have courage, to ask me for a favor?
She listens to the song over and over again.
Caracas is the capital of Venezuela.
Where is Wolfsburg?
Economically, the country has hit rock bottom.
Could we move the tunnel so we don't risk a collapse?
What if the trunk is full?
Advertising does not belong in schools.
Just keep calm and nothing will happen.
Matthias is looking for a way to integrate sport into his daily schedule.
What’s the weather in Dargun going to be like?
What is that in the bottles?
In the mean time I am supposed to empty the mailbox and water the flowers.
The whole scene is just silly.
In many ways, Ubuntu is doing its own thing.
In many African states French is the official language.
I think, Sabine’s poodle is badly trained.
That's what my niece always says as well.
She has been talking about that all day.
Fabian can imitate so many different voices that it is always amazing to listen to him reading stories.
The alpha channel encodes the texture’s opacity.
So that not even the suspicion of corruption comes up, you should play with open cards from the beginning.
I’m your biggest fan!
“That is honorable”, nodded Benny acknowledging.
Then it was the end of the workday.
Honestly, why is that being reported on at all?
The mobilization of troops in the event of an emergency must be prepared.
What a dreadful mistake!
The program is free, but no free software.
Looking for a challenge?
When it looks at you, you can feel, that it has something in mind.
During some of the sentences that were read out loud, it almost sounds like the voice is disguised.
Elmar has to sit tight in this position for three and a half hours.
That’s how you can stymie them from the get-go.
Out of the goodness of her heart, Jasmin shared her supplies with Konstantin.
Close the light in the bathroom!
Everything gets mixed up in your stomach anyway.
Did you know that the universe is standing in Bremen?
Oh, that’s bleak.
It would have been easier to lie, but she wanted to be honest.
That is all not that bad.
The statistics do not outline a clear preference.
The ruler agreed because he recognized the dilemma immediately.
Our present keyboard layout has its origin in the era of mechanic typewriter.
Isn't it child abuse to throw sand in the eyes of the little one?
What exactly went wrong?
The magician’s muddle-headedness meant he did exactly the opposite of what he wanted to do.
Lena wants to know what is in the package.
Bandar Seri Begawan is the capital of Brunei.
Give me the money!
Do you have to sacrifice a lamb of all things?
Registration is free for women.
Look closely!
The retailer has a hard time because of the disreputable image.
A boxing match against all trends: The master vs. his abstinence.
Chemically seen atoms with the same valence shell are very similar.
The train won’t stop in Waiblingen today.
Muscat is the capital of Oman.
Mr. Stolpe is a great music teacher.
Ready, set, go!
For the test, your stomach has to be empty.
Kai has hired a removal company.
The tower overlooks the entire swimming pool.
The case is obvious.
What is currently in the news?
The bedroom doesn’t need to be heated a lot anyway.
How many apricots are there in the base of the cake?
Now we are starting to warm up.
“Star Wars” has shaped an entire generation. Even until today.
In this case - data record number, name, surname, DOB, place of birth, current address, and other addresses.
Where does the boy get his aggressions from?
The seagulls know exactly what the fishermen have in their nets.
Do I need an umbrella?
Oleg does not want to leave anything to chance.
When you understand a language, it doesn’t automatically mean that you speak it well.
Stay cool and don’t let your feelings take over.
The planet is not recognizable with bare eyes.
The situation is about to escalate.
That’s the typical excuse to hide domestic violence.
Search for trains to Stuttgart leaving tomorrow at fourteen o’clock.
And what else?
With the length of the ship and the form of the nose, the possible maximum speed can be calculated.
Read aloud, please.
I have to get up early in the morning, Alwin apologized.
Who left the light turned on?
When the town wall was built everyone said it was undefeatable.
I'm building a power takeover machine, I answered promptly.
Have you brushed your teeth already?
I will write a note that you are sick till the end of the week.
I quickly need to ask my phone where the next ATM is.
The landfill spoils the cityscape.
Dörte puts raisins and almonds on the shopping list.
Open dictionary!
Soon it is time.
Who else is for it?
I don't know which way is safe.
Protons and neurons have a neutral color charge.
Light off!
The building has just been extensively renovated.
Timo was hit in the face with a bat at ice hockey.
I do not let other tell me if I can wear a mini skirt or not.
While they were tied to the stake, they observed the Indians performing their ritual.
I've got a bone to pick with your superiors anyways.
Wash me, but do not make me wet.
The audio signal is sampled forty-four thousand one hundred times per second.
We are in a dilemma.
An exclamation mark is enough.
Are you able to tie your shoes on your own?
Your room is one single battlefield.
The vulcanization fluid causes the patch to connect to the tire.
Alright, we’ll fight with our fists, the knight agreed, and put his sword back in its sheath.
Let's pick out some more tiles for the living room.
This is the last warning.
Do I still have sweet cream in the fridge?
Good equipment improves his coolness factor at least.
Reutlingen is a beautiful place.
Anyone who sees a shooting star can make a wish, but must keep the request to himself.
That is pure propositional logic.
Let’s cut the chase.
The actions missed their aims.
At the counter over there it says self-service.
You will not get far with that by Fred.
Let’s change this!
Please put your phone on the silent mode.
The poorest one!
My lord, please bare with me when I say: It is a tricky situation.
Jochen thinks about his desires.
Assumed from there.
Her diamond earring shines in countless colors.
This smoke outlet is a dangerous misconstruction.
The pop culture understanding of trauma is inadequate.
People say the baby takes after their dad.
The Syrians stand flat on their feet in front of the first admission site.
Every guest can bring someone with them.
What are you doing here at the advanced seminar?
She was under the impression this voice belonged to Mr. Rehfeld.
This leads to troop withdrawals from the town.
Niamey is the capital of Niger.
Set timer to thirty seconds.
Skopje is the capital of Macedonia.
That’s the difference between theory and practice.
Which groups of people receive concession entry prices?
Should the toothbrush be soft, middle or firm?
On Rügen, a part of the cliff line broke off again.
The blond over there is very attractive.
Yes, the device works with data from OpenStreetMap.
Only the coolest people sit in the back row.
Cassandra knows such machos only too well.
The little one is really blossoming with us.
She walked all the way to Düsseldorf.
Various small garden associations have called on their members to protest against the construction project.
What kind of pill did Ingrid take?
I give that marriage three years.
Thanks for the background information.
The cutting of vegetables in advance is the most annoying thing about cooking.
It’s no fun to call your friends on the moon.
You must be kidding me!
You’re not alone in every kayak.
After some time, a hierarchy is established in the pack.
I do not know yet if I will be in Chemnitz next week.
Cleaning staff are perfect spies.
‘‘Oh,’’ he moaned and hit the noisy device against his bed.
Through a small hole in the rock the sunrays shine into the cave.
Hard to imagine that the snake can eat a complete gazelle.
Nice to meet you, Professor.
An electrification of the line seems urgently necessary.
Add to my birthday wish list.
Back then Turbo-Pascal was super trendy.
At what temperature is milk pasteurized?
Have you been at the police already?
What’s on at the cinema at the moment?
If someone falls out of line here, he is worn down.
Obviously, we are not welcome here.
I learned that in the army.
The task is pretty difficult, isn’t it?, said Kai in an attempt to start a conversation with Helena.
No river in the world flows through as many countries as the Danube.
Our eyes met while dancing.
Angela had come up with this crazy drinking game.
Show my travel plan
What do you do against moles in the garden?
Did the chief officer give his permission?
Did you not see the right-of-way sign?
You reach more people with humor.
The creatures are not easy to tame.
Melanie willingly waved the bank statement to gain an advantage.
It’s cheap synthesize vitamins.
Luckily, Benedikt gave me a boost.
Continue, please.
At this time of year, mandarins are only available in cans.
I think Sabrina is absolutely free from giddiness.
I would not be surprised if that is also from her pen.
Dodoma is the capital of Tanzania.
Just go away!
Jonathan recently bought himself a new Porsche.
In principle both are right.
You are recommended to take a break.
Due to the screws being moved regularly they won’t rot firmly.
Add to my bookmarks.
The many new buildings are the city’s new figurehead.
But then the door flew open and cut him off.
Please don’t tell me you lost it, Adam probed.
The door or the driver?
Who’s the drummer in your band?
May I borrow your welding machine?
It is often used as an argument to ignore facts that are too complicated for oneself.
That suits you, right?
The piece is purely instrumental.
What’s today’s date?, Gerrit asked.
You're hanging there like a drop of water in a curve.
Everyone must find the right moment for themselves.
The mother took her child to bed.
Jesus, how much utensils we needed for that.
If Kittner get Oberwasser after all, we’ve still got something up our sleeve.
The experiment is supposed to elucidate how honest tourists are.
Which cards can you put on the nine of hearts?
Then we come back to the back-up very quickly.
Start playing!
You can assume that.
Dollar signs flash in his eyes and he rubs his hands greedily.
Since recently, authorities offer the dual course of administrative computer science.
Are there planets with geostationary moons?
I have never seen it like that.
Try to keep this on your person at all times.
Did you remember the groceries for the birthday party?
That is like Münster.
The capital of Taiwan is Taipeh.
The officials are now fighting against illegal street races.
Until then, the waves should have smoothed out.
We still need a suction pad for the fairy lights.
We need to get the tomcat castrated as well.
Lydia has been sat in front of the TV for the entire day.
I met Amanda in the cafeteria.
Yes, which forum do I mean?
Calculate the distance between Ingolstadt and Kassel.
Yes, but the growth is fully financed on pump.
Recently there were copper thieves in the area.
The pilgrim trail runs past a grave site.
How am I supposed to carry a washing machine up the stairs by myself?
Do you know at all how to deal with a pepper spray?
The we can keep talking
His egocentric personality doesn't make it easy for me.
And what year was it built?
It's not a classic superhero story, but the characters still have superpowers.
I wonder what he thinks is going on insight?
Which crimes never become time-barred.
Why do seniors go for grocery shopping, if, actually, those who are employed should do that?
At the latest from one hundred ninety-two kilobits per second you can describe the result as transparent.
Sounds devastating at first, but actually it is not that bad.
Tubular screens flicker horribly at sixty hertz.
I actually like her but she always wants to know everything.
The tea is still brewing.
Do you have any special advice for good food in Worms?
A chemical reaction produces new substances with new properties.
Nelly stuck her fingers.
The railroads between Munich and Innsbruck should be built before the Brenner Base Tunnel is ready.
I need to.
They are standing in the garage.
Children’s bikes should be colored in signal colors.
The examination office of the main customs office is located in area D.
The trainer became a talking point again.
Actually, the fireworks were triggered accidentally, but it fits quite well.
With relish, Eckhart cycled past the cars, which did not make headway in the morning traffic jam.
Do you need a band aid?
How will the weather be tomorrow morning?
Mrs Binder, you have described the reasons given by the monopolist as flimsy.
I understood this.
Counter-talk requires courage.
Express delivery, he said, completely out of breath.
Good night!
You will be able to see a bird’s eye view of the archipelago during our sightseeing flight.
Lack of oxygen makes tired.
The senate has not agreed yet.
Without individual characteristics you will not make the masses change.
If you want to suppress a thought, it can help to form chains of associations.
Think twice who you accept because expulsion proceedings are complicated.
When you superimpose red light on top of green, you get yellow.
This is the opportunity.
The third participant kept on making biting remarks.
We are looking for the best of the best of the best!
Did you have breakfast yet?
The Duden protects the German language.
Don’t deduce the stance of the public from yours.
He claims that he was kidnapped by aliens.
With their own advertisers, magazines don't go to shame that hard.
What is not, can not break.
No less than four tugs transport the container freighter to its location.
Have you been vaccinated against rabies?
Who knows?
We need more people fighting the good fight.
The washing machine weighs less than me.
Nuclear power plants are usually close to water an have a rail connection.
We can’t just run away.
The first Torpedo shot exactly in the direction in which they were fired.
The stockholders obviously expect a fat increase in turnover in the next quarter.
If you book a roundtrip, you get a discount of ten percent.
Let us forget about it.
Climbing up there without any safety device isn’t half bad.
In every nursery there is a colorful night light.
She is grateful for every story.
Any time again!
Is Common Voice also affected by the warning madness?
Most likely, those drastic measures included some that violated the Geneva Conventions.
It was always important to Aunt Gisela that everyone got the same amount.
You just have to know what’s important.
Many people already have been frozen to death, but nobody has been killed by bad smell yet.
Can I tell you a secret?
How does one explain Déjà-vus?
The scaffolding would be too shaky for me.
Cool car, buddy!
Greedily he gulps more of the stuff in his mouth.
Don’t even look at it!
No fear, he only wants to play.
In this village there is no primary school nor a pediatrician.
Is envy a sin?
A tear rolled over his cheek.
I did not know anything about that.
That’s exactly what she was waiting for.
This old promise was not right back then too.
Tablecloths are completely unnecessary textiles.
An incredible amount of chewing gums is stuck under the scratched tables.
The next train to Wetzlar leaves in one hour and thirty minutes
Confirm!
North Nicosia is the capital of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.
This is Hauke’s first time participating in the acting club.
Max is a really unlucky fellow.
The tug of war became a fixed ritual at the summer festival.
Airports are often bound in above average into the traffic network.
During the constituent meeting, a chairman was elected.
Is it raining in Hildesheim today?
The Chancellor expressed her complete confidence in the minister.
The girls covered her face with her hands and sobbed.
Silvia feels fit.
I did not understand anything in the physics lecture.
Add to the wish list.
I don't know how I came to that now.
Is there a nice museum in Görlitz?
Looking for trains to Munich.
The electrified pasture fence surrounds the enclosure.
The municipal utilities have already noticed this.
So sister in the sense of a nurse.
Brunhilde got her finger caught.
Neighbor Benz rolls over the cable with the lawnmower.
She can’t be mad at him for more than ten minutes.
Where is the difference between jam and marmalade?
How do you tell a friend from a foe?
As soon as the first pharmacy will open on the moon, pharmacy prices will be combined with moon prices.
Majuro is the capital of Marshall Islands.
At the moment, Sebastian takes over the part, because Adrian is very busy job-related.
Someone stole my wallet.
Apparently, the cerebral cortex reacts sensitively to such stimuli.
But leave the hats!
It's a miracle nothing happened.
Look into my eyes!
How will the weather be this evening?
It's still a nice gesture.
Asked about it, Jochen hemmed and hawed but he was unable to form a proper response.
In a few seconds, level three will launch.
Dörfler, the drug commissioner, wants to make this topic socially acceptable.
The cartel authority will pull out all the stops to prevent the merger.
And in my application, I clearly stated that I was against it.
One moment, I have to say goodbye to Kirsten.
Do you sleep on your side, on your stomach, or on your back?
Rico proudly tells that he jumped off the three-meter board.
Do bees die in order for farmers and the chemical industry to increase profits?
Two exactly equal people cannot complement one another.
Kuwait City is the capital of Kuwait.
Aleppo is the second largest city in Syria.
Neptune is the planet that is furthest from the sun.
Half of our goods are transported across the Mittelland canal.
Open Facebook.
Show the snow report.
What’s the temperature in Lübeck?
You mean to who?
Just simply stick to our guidelines.
Frank is dissatisfied with the overall situation.
Evelyn is sea sick.
Do cloned animals have a soul?
The ports in Cuxhaven and Bremerhaven are in competition with the others.
What sort of distorted worldview is that?
You cannot do this.
The show has been cancelled due to the weather.
The confusing menu is loaded with many useless buttons.
Start from the beginning, please.
Earned it!
What do you have in your mouth?
What’s going wrong in this country?
Malé is the capital of the Maldives.
The chest would also have to be defrosted again, sighs Dietmar.
What the hell is that?
Will you marry me?
Can you open a window, it is pretty stuffy in here.
Dial Martin’s number.
How much is a journey to Oberhausen?
That's enough of that!
We should take an antique as a souvenir.
Do you know where my key is?
All we need is a little simple trigonometry.
I would propose switching off the old productive system.
It’s easy to mess with Mara.
In Tyrol, it seems like every other roll contains caraway seeds.
We will immediately send you a team for reparation.
Because the tram drives on the road as well, it only has two headlights.
Sometime it will collapse in itself.
Marzipan is delicious.
People who build a new house today should absolutely lay wiring for network cables.
Marjoram or caraway are rarely used for seasoning.
Of course the developer is happy about his software being used.
Stickers should be applied, if at all, centrally on DVDs.
And now we're in a predicament.
Kabul is the capital of Afghanistan.
Belmopan is the capital of Belize.
You starred at the waiter all evening long.
Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte is the capital of Sri Lanka.
She hasn’t given up on the dream of owning her own home yet.
Wait and see, said Edith.
Before that I still want to replant my room plant.
Names are only hollow words.
I don’t know why Annabel thinks she knows what to do.
It isn’t needed anywhere else anymore.
How do you say that in North Frisian?
No, thank you. I still have to drive.
Don’t touch!
The captain doubts whether that was really a penalty kick.
A cluster of people had gathered around the town musicians.
My lighter is not working.
Tell me more.
If everyone thinks of themselves, everyone is thought of.
I prepared something.
At the local school the fifth graders are called Sextans in line with old tradition.
Careful boss, the cops are on their way.
Nothing concrete can be linked to a single measured value.
Armin failed at getting the thread through the eye of the needle.
But if it does occur, the consequences are all the more devastating.
But the sheet of paper has two sides, my darling.
Mark all new emails as unread.
Bremerhaven is a exclave and belongs to the city state Bremen.
Any news on forensics yet?
The joke is so bad it’s good.
Is that on your checklist as well?
In addition to that it contains peanuts and hazelnuts.
I don’t know why but I can’t stand daisies.
Did anyone get on here?
Let us now devote ourselves to the glaze.
Desert sand is not appropriate for production of concrete.
She only listened halfway and then got excited about what she understood.
Gods don’t need money.
The airbag did not work.
I’ll eat my hat if that’s true.
Only Evelyn did not give up hope yet.
Let us go outside.
Because of homeland security and all that and such!
I am sorry, we cannot accept more reservations.
Rio de Janeiro even was the capital of Portugal for a short time.
The majority of famous artwork nowadays comes from this ear.
Beirut is the capital of Lebanon.
After eight weeks, the project was completed.
Tokyo is the capital of Japan.
Some guest felt disturbed by the two love birds.
It would be quite bizarre.
She's filling up herself way too much.
Essentially, the whole thing is made in one piece.
At most, a spraining of the ankle.
Always go forward, never go back!
Do not interfere with my work.
The market cannot currently represent these externalities.
She walked until Görlitz
Hong Kong, like Macau, is a special administrative region of the People’s Republic of China.
Cardiff is the capital of Wales.
Often times this view is still presented in old books.
She didn’t understand this cult of personality.
Searching for trains to Nürnberg which departure tomorrow at one PM.
Start vehicle.
There we will take a one-of-a-kind glimpse behind the scenes.
For the cosmonauts it is a physical strain.
This flees upward as an updraft and gives the bird of prey boost.
Now also Linda has to say something about it.
The hill start assistance holds the brake until you accelerate strong enough.
We witnessed a fascinating spectacle of nature.
The engineer stepped on the dock and inspected the damage on the prow.
We want to make an explosive discharge into a controlled combustion.
The forklift driver is insane.
After dealing extensively with the animal kingdom, we will now enter the kingdom of plants.
Could you not make a detour to Hagen?
Vivien still did not understand what Ulla was getting at, and had a questioning expression on her face.
We might as well describe the position as radius R and angle Phi.
If three headlights are used, this is always a rail vehicle.
If I had not seen it with my own eyes, I would not believe it either.
The dessert consists of mascarpone, yogurt, bananas and other fruits.
With this little propeller plane the air show will degenerate into a laughing stock.
Only the discontinuities create problems.
But you understand the dilemma, or not?
Can you show me how to program the milling machine?
When the lanterns go on, you’re coming home again.
Do I still have sour cream in the fridge?
My mixer packed up.
Walking from Offenburg to Leipzig takes quite a while.
Here you have a few flavors to try.
He is not going to be able to say no.
At the end Luca presented a very special delicacy to us.
After that comes the harbor birthday.
Children in particular often get fevers.
A bit more of both, please!
There are no clinical studies in this regard.
In order to save energy, the clock frequency is throttled during idling.
Good morning, Ms. Schäfer, the whole class murmured together without much motivation.
Tell others about Common Voice!
This guy is crazy.
Get under my umbrella.
Friederike already had the fever thermometer in her hand.
He got on his e-bike and fled.
Intensely Gaby searched for a shadow parking space.
Team three will supersede you.
Oslo is the capital of Norway.
A pike bit the lure.
This acceleration is amazing!
What is the weather going to be like tomorrow morning?
Only because it is not going her way, she does not have to cry.
It's probably quantization noise.
Share that song with Sebastian.
Sina bit her tongue during landing.
Can we take the bus to Nürnberg instead?
Dear colleagues, let me say a few words about the current situation.
Without rest, without pause, the servant storms into the palace.
Venus is located between mercury and earth.
The species’ zoological classification has been disputed for decades.
On the twenty-first of November the biography of a former rock-star will be published.
Afterwards we can change in Osnabrück
Wikipedia does not qualify as an academic source.
Between the theoretical prognosis and the experimental evidence of gravitation waves about hundred years had passed.
The start has already been a success.
Thank you for the valuable tip!
Do I have a choice?
I had to wait in Leipzig for a long time.
Apparently, she learned from her observations.
Otherwise, there will be centrifugal forces that can destroy the drive.
Have you ever been in Thailand?
Is that meant to be all?
Display battery.
The Turkish Embassy is located right next to the Slovak Embassy.
Stagnation is still better than recession.
On which finger does one wear an engagement ring?
Overall, it’s a positive development.
If Netflix can only be used with proprietary software, then I'm out, Hannes says defiantly.
But please don’t disappoint me.
Do sharks exist in here?
Michael is sitting on a bench and reads a newspaper?
Mareike is the one pulling the strings in the background.
The animal lay on its back and had all its paws spread-eagled.
That is not a prejudice but a life experience.
Are you sure that this is the right way?
What is so difficult in spreading the shopping carts relatively even on the rows?
Yummy, there are grapes!
Vienna is the capital of Austria.
Allow me to partake in your knowledge once again.
Is poetic justice really just?
You're not stupid because you don't know something.
The fog was so heavy, Steven could hardly see his own hands.
She felt the arteries in a routine way.
If you skip this secret ingredient, it doesn’t work.
They wanted to build a humble hut and now they have built a temple!
Why is the sky blue?
When does the sun set in Oberhausen today?
How many more times?
It’s still light enough to read things.
Do you have a spray against mosquitos?
The soup you've got yourselves into must now be eaten.
I cannot understand how this could have happened.
Disc brakes not so much.
Do you have a tissue for me?
Vientiane is the capital of Laos.
How do you say this in Russian?
Total nonsense.
All in all, the heuristics are rather suboptimal.
There are no more tea spoons.
Good morning, my beautiful.
Incredible, such a crowd of people just because of a telephone!
Keep going straight!
On his safety harness, the climber had several carabiners to hook himself in every few meters.
What is twenty-eight divided by seven?
Please take off your jewelry to reduce the risk of injury.
Such controls are not reasonable in the judgment.
I don’t like it when programs change their design just because the old one doesn’t look modern anymore.
In the sun, wet clothes dry especially quick.
How should I know that?
To warm up, we form a circle.
What are you trying to suggest with that?
Medical care for pregnant women is inadequate in many places.
The temperature of the Earth should rise no higher than one point five degrees.
Snob, a person who offensively displays wealth and social superiority.
Other customers also bought the following scrap.
What’s the fastest way to get to Heidelberg?
Bet that Joachim is going to watch soccer again tonight?
The chairman justified his resignation by saying that he now wants to devote himself to other tasks.
First, we should search the fur for fleas and other parasites.
He’s in another one of those melancholic moods right now.
In the meantime the court acknowledged that the condemnation was done wrongly.
The stapler should be in the second drawer from the top.
If you don’t give me my toy back, I’m going to tell!
That is a fact.
For a first date a public place such as a cafe may be a good idea.
I know that you like cheese a lot.
In a showcase all wooden figures were neatly placed one next to the other and each labelled with a name.
The holidays are often difficult to handle for people who are depressed.
I’d like to ask you a question!
The annunciator counts down from ten loudly.
Is that not a contradiction in itself?
The beef is marinated and then rolled into rolls.
She washes her hands in innocence.
Without the blackout, they wouldn’t have lit romantic candlelight in the room.
I can avoid marzipan biscuits.
Throw the frisbee as far as you can.
It could just be an emulation then, concluded Franzi, sharp as a knife.
Most drinks come in one time usage bottles.
After the syntactic analysis we deal with semantics.
She is scared to blame herself.
What was the date again?
Henning is a kindhearted person.
Figure it out.
Is there any coffee left?
By default, all parameters are selected automatically.
Wobbling trains your balance.
Station wagons are practical when you want to transport something.
His cooking skills are just sufficient enough to survive.
I hope it was not too crazy; there should be a little bit fun at the end of the day.
No more, he responded and reached for the phone.
Thanks to computer simulation, we were able to design propellers that are a lot less susceptible to cavitation.
Somehow I get the feeling that you're not telling me the truth.
In the end the chief editor apologized in person.
How many pieces does your puzzle have?
Finally, they were able to make peace with the Hesse family.
Today is really unbearably muggy.
Armed with a hedge trimmer, Mr. Borchert starts to work.
In a pillow fight, the bunk bed collapsed.
Charlotte finked on us.
“The event will take place in Reutlingen”, announced Guido.
It's no use complaining about the referee.
Unfortunately, the negotiations came to nothing.
It’s awesome how the rotor blades howl when you hold a vacuum close to them.
Can you pick me up in Ibbenbüren?
Is the apartment warm enough?
What does that mean in Flemish?
He is known to be thin-skinned and egocentric.
The artificial intelligence used for directions couldn’t make sense of the reversing loop.
Tasso helped to find the dog again.
In my opinion, Glöckner remains below his means.
The state attorney made a sweeping gesture.
You were alone in Fürth?
Why should particles be so attracted to one another?
You are all in the way.
My tactic is denial and pointing fingers at other people.
All that seemed to him very unserious.
My oh my!
I usually don’t dream but when I do, I have nightmares.
Without circuit diagram the work will take hours.
You can ride with the bicycle to Oldenburg
Is it foggy in Mannheim?
When she spun the bottle, she had to kiss a guy she didn’t even know.
Shards bring luck.
At the exit the alarm suddenly sounded and Arno stopped in amazement.
He was born in Koblenz.
What we need is a measure for the anisotropy.
At night, the switch of the power strip is the only source of light in my room.
The fire brigade has moved out to reinforce the embankment with sandbags.
Libreville is the capital of Gabon.
The shortest way between two points is a straight line.
As an aside, oats are full of fiber.
He is also suspended for the match against Borussia.
Does the federal highway B-ninety-six lead through Neustrelitz?
Hopefully the tour will help you to free your mind.
The waves keep swapping over the edge.
This steak is tough like a shoe sole.
It was a struggle to remove the wedding ring from her finger.
I'm not stupid, the old one replied and didn't know if he should be offended.
Camilla was most excited for the bestowal.
You promised it!
We can measure very high reactive currents as a result of the phase shift.
Logically, Saskia nods.
There is still a lot of convincing necessary.
You can refurbish the rims once more.
What do you mean by that?
Why do you want to go to Bremerhaven?
What is wrong with you?
After all, the predator weighing close to two hundred kilos is at the top of the food chain.
How far away is Ludwigshafen am Rhein from Frankfurt an der Oder?
What is an emotion really?
But work and energy are the same thing.
Nothing of what you do seems complete, complained Regina.
Cross the intersection and turn left right away.
That sounds like damage in the bearing, Aaron guessed, scratching his chin.
Come on, overtake the slow guy.
You don’t have to be available 24/7.
I basically own the place.
The commercial communicates a wrong impression.
The Magnus effect is the physical basis of a banana flank.
I would give Felix the shirt off my back.
I want more money!
How does an ink eraser work?
Amman is the capital of Jordan.
Seoul is the capital of South Korea.
The camping place in the forest is a real secret tip.
Every third Thursday of the month the senior group meets in the clubhouse.
One at the moment!
But wouldn’t that have an impact through fees on the legal health insurances?
With the next Kernel developments, new Power-savings features will supervene.
In order for a spark to jump, more than one thousand volt are needed.
Nina brings both of her kids to daycare.
No one is being forced to.
Karina thinks that the devastation will continue on even longer.
Being a painter is not profitable.
When’s the next full moon?
My name is Roland and I will be your person of contact.
Let us shift the meeting to tomorrow, thinks Marvin.
Karoline starts the spring cleaning.
Not another sexism debate!
So close to the end, it’s better to hedge your bets.
Safety-critical construction parts must be stable.
My neighbors are in Harz at the moment.
You can take the bus to Würzburg
When you’re home, dish use always increases by two hundred percent.
The maypole was stolen once again.
Sometimes I would like to correct something more.
Did anybody enter the train in Buxtehude?
When does a ship swim?
Everybody take as much as you want.
You should not use digital technology to enslave its users.
Santo Domingo is the capital of the Dominican Republic.
The reign was one of the longest and most glorious periods.
I am going fishing with Florian today in the afternoon already.
The train to Köln leaves today on platform three
The speech recognition has markedly improved following the update on the eleventh of January.
The whole body has to be under tension.
Our freezer has the energy efficiency class A-plus-plus-plus.
Somewhere in here, there should be a pair of tweezers.
The advantage of a wire connection is that you can just pull the plug at any time.
Unlike electric cars, combustion engines cannot start from a stationary point.
Darn, they’re carbon copies of each other!
Show a clear edge!
Oh, I can sacrifice it without a problem.
The playback was paused for a short time to understand each other better.
Do not expose CDs and other optical media to sunlight.
Somebody has to let in the chimney sweep.
Is there a flight link between Mainz and Lübeck?
Such rumors are extremely damaging to the reputation of veterinarians.
A window keeps popping up here all the time.
She found the painting kind of unaesthetic.
I’m taking you with me on my trip to the lowlands.
That is all just a big misunderstanding.
Is there cream left in the fridge?
I don’t understand what this is.
You’re doing it wrong.
The seeds are particularly rich in unsaturated fats.
Waldemar pulled the plug.
Because the fat floats on top, it can be skimmed off with a sieve.
Germans and Austrians still argue about what a “Lenker” is today.
Next to four-stroke engines, two-stroke engines also exist.
Other pieces of the same author look at advanced topics.
Cash is a piece of independence from banks which is tangible.
Where is the cling film again?
Say something!
Between high school time and working life is the perfect time to go abroad.
That explains too, why he was wearing a radiation suit.
They should give you a returnable bottle against a deposit.
It requires quite a bit of practice to turn around a canoe somewhat elegantly.
To write a WhatsApp message to Tina.
But I know Klaas only fleetingly, Tobias restricted immediately.
What the heck is the matter here?
Here you can see the dinghy of the Greenpeace activists, which only has a five HP outboard engine.
The two friends tried to open the gate with all their might.
Dennis again brought a bad grade home.
Get used to notation with the Nabla operator
But we don’t want to unnecessarily shy the horses.
Until she gets a kidney donation, she has to depend on dialysis.
Dot, dot, comma, dash - a smiley face in a flash.
Simon has pit stains.
It smells like fresh coffee.
Preheat flat.
Each representation has its own strengths and weaknesses when used in other ways.
To celebrate the day, everyone is allowed to try the wind channel.
The Rhine is a fabulous motive for photos.
Porto Novo is the capital of Benin.
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands.
You should always have your passport handy.
If technological development cannot be stopped, we must speed up the learning of how to use technology.
Heiko had a fabulous idea.
All legal rules are useless, if nobody polices them.
Give me the switchboard.
The intense chemical smell you encounter while you unwrap it gives off a bad impression.
This is how the party shows that it is as unsubstantial as the poster.
Pioneers like him are an idol to me.
You did not want it differently.
The dance instructor is a four-time German and two-time European champion in Latin and standard dance.
The starter motor is probably broken.
Just buy a card for your mum on your own.
This is a valid email address.
Frosting on the cake or the pie is the icing on the cake.
It is hard not to think about it.
Formally correct does not mean practically smart.
The Elbe leads to the Northern Sea.
A problem with the proprietary driver prevents that the computer awakes from the standby mode.
Shame upon him who thinks evil upon it.
The snow is from yesterday.
Every time the keeper is entering the little house, he lifts the door mat.
Crashing others is fun, but also damages your car.
Frankfurt is a hub for international air travel.
Eventually Finja and Gaby went to the lost and found office together.
Montevideo is the capital of Uruguay.
Having breakfast on the way, saves a lot of time.
Her movements remember one of those of a conductor.
The skinhead is a bit shy on his own.
He wants to cement the chastisement in his daughter's lifestyle.
Not again!
What does the speedometer say?
He pointed to his leg.
Oh my god
Turn on the garage light.
This is because the engine is built as a long-stroke engine.
Because Hannes got up too late, he wasn’t able to shave.
Sorry that I’m late.
Furthermore, a so-called Richard Kaufmann is on my list.
With the World Wide Web much knowledge is available to us for free so that we could learn countless things.
Sanaa is the capital of Yemen.
Do we have a container for the walnut shells?
Yes, is today Easter already?
Psst, something is happening there in the front!
Apart from newer things.
The homeroom teacher was out sick all week.
Put on a clean pair of pants.
Before they knew it, the servant stood in front of them.
Christian was the only one who voted against.
Daressalam is the seat of government of Tanzania.
He’s always been at war with stochastics.
The fake looks extraordinarily real, optically perceived.
It has already taken several thousand volts.
I would distance myself from that.
Ideally, administrations should use free software.
At that time, it was important that no parts get caught up in writing.
The prisoner from cell one hundred and two is transferred to another correctional facility.
The smoking ban also helps to protect non-smokers.
There is no alternative to a common solution.
Cool slogan on your t-shirt.
The grass is so long that it feels like you have to empty out the basket of the lawnmower every thirty meters.
Wiebke attaches the lead to the collar and walks the dog.
Sister Jutta to the emergency department please, sister Jutta.
Dennis earns seventy-five euros per sold gram.
Please send your questions, suggestions, praise and criticism to kundenservice@firma.de.
The land-based trade between east and west lost importance.
No updates available.
Rise and shine!
Is that still education or is it dressage?
Who is drinking all day should also be able to afford his rent.
Hey guys, I’m the lord of all data.
Have you read all the books?
Maybe somebody would have taken pity then.
For goodness’ sake, what is that?
Is dark chocolate healthier than whole milk?
She tries to tickle him with a feather.
Reykjavík is the capital of Iceland.
Bissau is the capital of Guinea-Bissau.
This is inacceptable.
And who will teach me that?
We ripped open the package together.
If you move to Rhineland-Palatinate, you have only yourself to blame when you have to endure the street carnival.
Antonia is always open to new ideas.
Does gender equality really have to prevail in every department?
And here is a computer animation of such a galactic stellar explosion.
As a car driver, I would be in favor of expanding the rail network to relieve the roads.
Two smugglers were taken into custody at customs.
Everybody has their own story.
Emissions have fallen by nine hundred million tonnes, a minus of twenty-seven percent.
Even well-meant suggestions for improvement are partly already being assessed as insubordinate.
Do as she says!
No strong swear words, please.
Rick only remembers fragments.
Say goodbye to your idyllic world!
In the Sanddornweg the fire department had to pump out a basement.
These squares should take a good hard look at themselves.
Imitating is stealing.
You can forget about that.
Is it used to cook pasta?
What's on the shopping list?
In order to cross the other bridge you have to pay a toll.
Buying food is the most normal thing on earth.
Do not be afraid, the boy spoke and attacked.
Now you're becoming subjective.
The meat is tender and tastes delicious.
A thorough way of working is expected.
There's space here for a microwave.
Do the blue modules also have to be configured?, Eva wants to know.
There is definitely a need for refreshment after long-lasting hunting.
Even Sibylle needs a break every now and then.
In the moment of the ignition, you let the voltage on the primary coil drop for a short time.
Tell me one reason, to keep you alive.
Wait, I think my battery is almost empty.
The tap is dripping.
Recently it has been replaced by a better explanation.
I would suggest that we take a break at the next service stop.
We can still be friends.
The rug is full of lice.
Aşgabat is the capital of Turkmenistan.
You have to pay every time you cross the bridge.
At the latest here one should notice that this shop is not completely kosher.
Considered from an objective perspective, it is difficult to avoid negligence offences.
He is smooth like an eel.
The sound always lags with the newest version.
Stick closely to the agreed-upon script, and it will all go well.
In this case, he immediately consulted the Foreign Office.
With Y or I?
It continues with a referee ball.
Knife, fork, scissors and light are not allowed for small children.
When it was late, the meetings between the executives were often boozy.
They feel strong only in the group.
Who is in for one round of Bullshit-Bingo?
Because of his injury his athletic basketball career ended prematurely.
He just cuddled you.
The engine is obstructed at the rear part.
Karla is looking reproachful.
What does that mean in Swedish?
The kids painted the cows lilac because they’ve probably seen too many commercials.
Hartmut, you are getting old.
In the end, all the efforts were in vain.
Please take off earrings, gold chains and other jewelry!
They are surprised to find that the trees do not grow from top to bottom.
To study insects in the laboratory, they are temporarily stunned with carbon dioxide.
Are you again quarreling with your neighbors?
How secure is our cryptography going to be when quantum computers are available for mass demand?
Zora was examining the conductor.
Hertha gave us an overview over the different catching methods.
The flight was canceled.
Who teaches four-C?
Let us convince you of our high quality, large selection and excellent service!
His vision apparatus is trained at great distances.
Podgorica is the capital of Montenegro.
You don’t always have to be first.
Lothar was triumphant.
Is the GPU even the bottleneck?
Duck and go!
Unfortunately the entrance is not suitable for wheelchairs.
He can’t be taken in so easily.
The report is not wrong, but unbalanced.
With whom are you chatting?
You don’t want to understand me, do you?
Our screw drivers are unbreakable.
Do we still have sour cream?
The milk expired a week ago!
That means, the overlap is the empty amount.
For many, Europe is the paradise on earth.
The exhibition mainly consists of stuffed animals.
The red cross first goes to the casualty.
Our goal is nothing less than the eradication of Virus.
Quito is the capital of Ecuador.
The Antarctic continent is surrounded by the Antarctic Ocean.
Greenland is an autonomous region that is part of the Kingdom of Denmark.
The earth attracts the moon.
In fact, earth’s magnetic north pole is on the southern hemisphere.
Another slice of this delicious raspberry cake please.
Please remember that.
The heating was set less warm.
The cycle path is so strongly under-rooted that you don't want to use it anymore.
The extra fuel is not only liquid but also unnecessary.
The filling height can fluctuate based on transport.
Appearance isn’t everything.
The bus is going to Heilbronn.
‘‘Time flies,’’ Jasmin said.
El Aaiún is the capital city of Western Sahara.
Pretoria is the capitol of South-Africa.
The weeds grow faster than you can tear it out.
A scuba diver never holds their breath.
Where did Kilian go?
I also need two poppy seed rolls
Let me research this, please.
Do not play yourself so important.
As a result, performance increases.
Torben is fed up.
What a tragic faith.
Everyone was there roughly at one.
The city of Bangalore is known as the "Silicon Valley of India".
The fireman checked the pressure gauge before he disappeared in the house.
Vatican city is the capital of Vatican.
Great excuse!
He will get in touch.
There is no doubt.
Just look, don’t touch!
First print, then ask, so the credo of Springer and Sixt.
Which way goes to the Sparkasse?
Monday is closing day.
The dentist tried in vain to remove the tough top coating.
The entropy is therefore significantly smaller than the coding length.
Now it’s time to get down to business.
All burners of this model series are forced breathing.
On the eleventh of November there is going to be a traditional St. Martin’s parade in the village, with everything that goes along with that.
When two people quarrel, the third one rejoices.
First fix the leaks, then pump out water.
How much is twenty-eight divided by seven?
I’ve never had a hangover like this.
There is no secret world government.
You don't have to justify yourself.
On average, a normal body temperature is thirty six point eight degrees.
The steersman leans over the railing.
Next to mercury, bromine is the only element that is liquid in it’s normal state.
You’re the last one who should feel guilty.
Fists fly, the earth trembles, the master brought him down.
The formula one pilot tried not to break out of the slipstream.
Nobody believed that he came from the future.
Please turn off your mobile phones.
And now even the shaver doesn’t work anymore.
You know how it goes.
Does gingerbread make you think of a sadistic witch in an instant?
But they have a lot to lose.
Potsdam is hardly noticeable in the shadow of Berlin.
You don’t point on dressed people with the naked finger.
When it is connected to the charging thing, the phone does not ring.
The crickets chirp in the background.
Gravity is a conservative force.
It’s a storm in a teacup with a windspeed of twelve.
Is it luxury already when drinking water comes flowing out of the pipe?
Clemens Lindner seems angry.
In other words: continue like that!
I can't sleep in the dark.
No problems with during the interplay.
A couple takes a walk holding hands.
A stork puffs up its plumage.
I will not take commands from a machine!
Round parachutes have a hole in the middle, so that they don’t flap backwards.
Within a few weeks, she has already established an extensive network.
In January the revenue typically declines because the consumers just spend so much money on Christmas.
Somehow the cat survived the fall from the balcony.
Madrid is the capital of Spain.
For her utterances she earned much ridicule and derision.
The grain is going to be harvested and threshed.
Many clients get advice in stores and then they buy online.
When we return home we are going to eat baked apple in any case.
Some people take photos of him or themselves.
She justifies it with the low demand.
Knut blacked out.
You spread positive energy.
You can wipe it off with a damp microfiber cloth.
There is a demonstration against rap music at the Theaterplatz.
Let that be!
Ankara is the capital of Turkey.
She got herself into this.
Can you walk from Munich to Jena?
Local news reports talk about an unlawful assembly of dozens of violent people.
I would like to exchange these boots.
You don’t have to turn it into a science right away.
How many people live in Erfurt?
The tallest building in the world is Burj Khalifa in Dubai.
What do we have all in all?
Because no function has side effects, they can be paralleled without a problem.
I am sorry, we have a private event.
Thanks to quick release, it only takes a few minutes to dismantle.
At least for the days between the years one could agree on a weapon stop.
When Jule heard this, she lost it.
Besides customs, Susi would also have to pay import sales tax for her gift from China.
We’ll talk later.
What happens with one’s digital legacy after a person’s death?
In winter, a heated steering wheel is really nice if you don’t have gloves.
The store is open between eight in the morning and eight at night.
There is a detour that’s signposted.
The Pacific Ocean borders on all other world seas.
A more detailed blog post describes the newly added features.
It was simply the lack of motivation that prevented Tanja from continuing.
How do you evaluate me?
Honestly, I've been a little scared.
The last occurrences were erased mercilessly.
No shooting at thermal images!
Does this registration office not have a telephone number?
Don’t lean!
Manufacturers should be obliged to provide years of security updates for devices connected to the Internet.
The melted part has dried.
Cooking jelly was a common practice in former days.
You’re very naive for your age.
Where did he get her from now?!
With Giro- or credit card?
It’s incredibly difficult not to behave in any kind of pattern.
Let as put the bread box to this side.
The magnetic field is held up by superconducting coils.
This is going to be expensive!
Crossing one of the bridges was only allowed to citizens of the town.
This investment will not pay off.
Do we still have sweet cream in the fridge?
Welcome to the introduction to object-oriented programming!
Eileen Fricke says that the breeding will be a sure-fire success.
Dear passengers, our next stop would have been Wolfsburg.
Such a fine dog!
The development plan obligates owners to plant at least one domestic tree.
Another four hundred thirty five kilometers until our destination.
Do you mean Halle in Westphalia or Halle an der Saale?
Of course, it is only a theoretical model.
The dirtiest things get into the water last.
Pure fear was writ large on his face.
The triceps and biceps are antagonistic muscles.
The origin of some raw materials is doubtful at least.
We mastered our instruments.
The platform has not generated enough revenue in the first fire years.
When there’s white noise, every frequency rushes at the same volume.
However, the indoor swimming pool is in a different tariff zone.
Apparently, he wants to distinguish himself.
In many movies the celebrities are being doubled by a double to avoid injuries.
Fried eggs and coffee, that is how a proper breakfast has to look like.
Magdalena is doing a pottery course.
Add!
He is stuck in a discrepancy.
[Untranslatable word play] Old bailiff!
Contrary to this, adults mostly manage to call for help.
What time is it in an hour?
Do you think it's okay to search other people's bulky trash for useful things?
She's making a brave attempt.
The phoenix rises again from his own ashes.
Dietmar Hassel is a good-for-nothing guy just like his sister.
Is there a Day of The Unlocked Gates of Heaven?
The train arrives at platform three.
Hello, Hello!
Flour is milled in the mill.
What does that mean in English?
The purpose of the law is to intensify the fight against illegal work.
Besides education and entertainment, zoos also take over the task of species conservation.
The truth is that some foreigners are more welcome than others.
Nepal sounds similar to Neapel.
Bugs used to be real live bugs.
Here is your fish.
All you can do is take off your hat to that.
Can Marius even read sheet-music?
I am as flat as a fluke, pushed Markus out in exhaustion and dropped onto the sofa.
Send me a surveyor.
Full of curiosity, Jenny looked at the fifty-times zoom lens.
The customer is king, and he should be aware of this from time to time.
Bujumbura is the capital of Burundi.
Petra also belongs to the long-established members.
Nikolai, do you have a handkerchief for me?
The bowel is the human body’s largest digestive organ.
Her pupils are widened.
What does the notary say about that?
You can’t make it to the top without pushing a few people out of the way.
Give me the weather cast for Frankfurt at the Main.
Martina paints her nails.
Ascorbic acid, also Vitamin C, is often used as a preservative.
It depends on the flight company how much luggage your are allowed to take with you.
In the end, Mario is awarded for his bravery.
What does that mean in Romanian?
I would not drink that anymore.
There’s no panacea for that.
You won’t succeed.
I just wanted to say a threat when the door opened and a new customer came in.
Is the internet connection set up?
The purchase of the new plant has dramatically increased the debt.
The inquiry at the agency is fully automatic.
Furthermore, she took a few sandwiches with her.
They were black sports shoes from Adidas with a light sole.
Step back.
There is a de jure ban, but it is not de facto enforced.
And then we, I would say, exchanged a few pleasantries.
Did you notice yet, Andreas got yet another tattoo.
The wire rope hoist is guided through a deflection pulley.
Apart from the red fox, no one can read the blue sheet.
For some, giving up meat entirely is too radical, for others, it’s not radical enough.
Because she was fed up, Ute submitted a petition.
What does this mean in Polish?
Tallinn is the capital of Estonia.
The three bullies had already started the next fight again.
You let the tanker burn down controlled and record everything.
How are the temperatures in Rostock currently?
What did you fill the ravioli with?
The plan works hopefully.
Microbiologists will examine the drainage system more closely.
Laser printing is a form of offset printing.
I’m excited about which songs she picks.
Not just a little pissed off, she's fuming.
Potentially, it’s some kind of war paint.
The Spree flows through Berlin.
Do you mean Liliane Schünemann?
Dog sitter is a recognized trade in America.
Phenotype and genotype are not easily distinguishable from each other
How much do you weigh?
My trip brought me to Oberhausen.
Which way to the stadium?
I recognized your need and shared my last piece of bread with you.
His whole body was shivering.
Now we’re square.
For decades people try to fight against drugs, without success.
Don’t you get involved here!
She actually thinks that sushi is disgusting.
Fairness is my middle name.
Here is the death.
It is the same picture just with a different white balance.
Bone finds in Sardinia prove it.
You can really see the brake fins here.
Melissa talks a lot when the day is long.
Therefore, I am pleading for the cultivation of durum wheat in outer space.
Go in the basket!
Sven has a blackout.
Give me back support.
All the mosquitoes I have struck dead are now in heaven, bothering the deceased there.
My identity card expires in April.
Managua is the capital of Nicaragua.
Lisa sent us a postcard from Italy.
Christiane has failed the math test twice already.
Who did not help, cannot complain afterwards.
As a special attraction, the farmer has laid out part of his maize field to form a labyrinth.
He makes temporary use of the wood pile to jack up the car.
See ya, til next time!
A stray tomcat had killed a lot of sparrows.
In Antarctica, there are fish with natural antifreeze fluid in the blood.
It's just a harmless cold.
Since five forty-five the highway has been closed due to the accident.
What comes next?
Where most of the voltage drops, most of the heat rise.
No one can know about this.
I do not dare!
There are some professions, you will be speechless!
Of course, Merlin had his card blocked immediately.
Subsequently the meat is minced and packaged.
In large groups like that, nobody feels responsible.
Before the stone has sunk it has touched the surface three times.
Crocodile clips are not suitable for long-term connections.
They need to be cranked from the outside.
The shopkeeper turned red because he realized he'd been caught.
Two little boys held a stick in the doorway and were happy when the automatic sliding door trapped it.
Afterwards we are all smarter.
Simon has a gap in his teeth through which he can whistle louder than anyone else.
That’s no reason to freak out like that, Olga replied.
You reap what you sow.
Havana is the capital of Cuba.
Sponges are probably the most primitive multicellular organisms that are existing.
The plumber already came, but he says he can’t do anything either.
Violence should not be trivialized.
Georgetown is the capital of Guyana.
Where the heck is Valerie?
Your stuff is still lying all over the place.
At least that is how I understood it.
Can you please also write the E for verbs that end with E?
Can’t you see that I’m busy?
Ms. Holle is shaking her blanket out again.
I'm freaking out!
In the rental agreement, it is stated that we should paint the apartment.
You bought me this.
We know each other.
And now I am kind of lost.
Anyone who buys a plot of land on a railway line should expect said railway line to be extended one day.
If federal elections were scheduled for next Sunday, who would you vote for?
Andorra la Vella is the capital of Andorra.
The International Space Station is the biggest artificial object in the orbit of earth.
Maybe this is more important than we think.
I never thought this would happen.
Last week, the fridge broke down.
The body is completely rusted from below.
Imported goods above a certain value must be cleared through customs.
From nineteen forty-four to nineteen fifty-nine, Karachi was the capital of Pakistan.
You get bad eyes from bad light.
There's no possibility to avoid each other here either.
Hydrocarbons usually occur in the form of chains.
Those who enjoyed studying in the past, make use of the new opportunities now.
When coming off the highway, you have to keep an eye on your speed, particularly in residential areas.
Frightened, Edgar jumped aside.
Now comes the chorus.
We must close this law loophole immediately!
I almost had forgotten that.
Now the Association of the Tied Bears published a letter of fire to the Ministry.
And that is what we love her for!
Tell me when you’re ready.
Where is there something like that?
No car manufacturer is taking privacy seriously.
I am actually having fun doing this.
He went to the dimmer to dim the light a bit.
Amazing that the kernels change color so quickly.
This single diamond is worth as much as forty-three bars of gold.
Your face is very pale.
Is the third part as worth seeing as the first two.
If you're dying to fight about it, go ahead!
Arne is into science fiction.
We have already made it to the moon.
Looking forward!
When the floor is set one stops at latest.
There was panic at the outpost.
You don't take a bath on a full stomach.
Thanks for the food for thought!
Unlike the passengers, the crew was able to save themselves.
Welcome to the club.
Isabel is most afraid of changes.
Historians date the event to the fourteenth of July, forty-seven hundred and three.
Who is coming to the cinema today?
I have a date with Frauke at quarter past three.
A civilian was killed in the crossfire.
Who lights the fireplace in the middle of the summer?
Tatjana is really confused.
Is the plan well thought through?
We assume that it is night active,
Malte often seems to be distracted during school time.
Watch your words!
A bomb from the Second World War had to be defused in the middle of the densely populated district.
It will work out over time.
Bad weather is not a reason to drive your kids to school by car.
Sailors know how to tie knots.
Apart from that it probably consists of a lot of essential minerals.
He makes himself the henchman of debt collection companies.
Entry is from eight PM onwards.
With the help of high-speed cameras, you could disprove the apparent paradox.
Please keep going. There is nothing to see here.
Do we have enough snow in the mountains?
So everything is fine then.
Our customers appreciate Ms. Mielke’s honesty.
There was no evidence of cancer following the chemotherapy.
Democracy is the rule of the stupid but it is the best form of rule that we have.
But the closest solution was overseen by everyone.
I think Patrick has a crush on Michelle.
Luanda is the capital of Angola.
For the coming week, the union has announced a strike if working conditions do not improve.
For four people, a diamond is a good lineup.
Wait children, let the others come out first.
Life is no petting zoo.
Nicosia is the capital of the Republic of Cyprus.
Even though it was hyped, the hair promotor was a shelf warmer.
Carefully, they waded through the swamp.
The end of the traffic jam is behind a bend.
As Ben rolls down the window, a dense cloud of smoke escapes towards the policeman.
Rena looks at the hair of her son with a lot of amusement.
How is it with your new roommate?
When it’s cold, cold-blooded animals have a reduced metabolism.
Thanks to the rope winch he could be pulled back onto the road.
The game is in a poor technical condition.
That comes just in time.
Maybe I am just too tired.
What are you afraid of?
Yes, the article is correct according to the Duden.
The problem is we aren’t thinking big enough.
My therapist wanted to suggest me a hypnosis.
That's how the Swabians are.
Without a trailer, semi-trailers must have incredible acceleration.
Anyway she had to pretend as if she liked it.
The early bird catches the worm.
Anyway, the local press does not know what to report about.
I know exactly what you think.
He has brought water pistoles for the kids.
Mister Köhler’s bike handle was completely deformed.
Can I invite you for an ice-cream?
Turn on the air conditioning.
Show vehicle.
From this perspective it rather is a swallow.
The one who catches him has to dance.
Heiner ordered a Wiener Schnitzel with fries.
I take everything back.
The activists are practicing a sit-in during their practice round.
At the moment, the ladies and gentlemen still reside in the lounge.
Let your creativity run wild!
The cave is considered to be difficult to access.
Add to bookmarks.
Add to library.
Do I still have cream?
It does not affect us.
Show the battery charge status.
Can i try your laser pointer?
It’s over.
Doesn’t it smell weird here?
Well, go ahead!
Stay calm or it may hurt.
An uneasy feeling overcame Johann.
That is how it is.
Artificial barriers like wooden peg rows are being build due to land reclamation.
Those were the days, when one could repair data drives again with a strip of tape.
And still getting money for it, right?
What are the ten commandments?
Especially the department manager has no sympathy with that.
The dam was built in nineteen eighty-two.
The other day I had to wait five hours at the civil registration office.
He actually succeeded with the old peasant trick.
The delay is measurable but not perceptible.
Thank god, we don’t have any appointments today.
It’s no secret that a piano is a string instrument.
But what is behind this?
Who kills, over whom he has power loses part of his power.
Wait, I need to change my ear for a second.
Search for flights to Nuremberg.
Do you need an umbrella in Weimar today?
Do you want to check in?
The largest US cities are New York, Los Angeles and Chicago.
Ear muffs like that were sometimes called Mickey-Mouses.
‘‘The lipstick stains,’’ Johannes complained.
Unfortunately the sweater shrunk.
The North-Baltic Sea Canal is more heavily navigated than the Panama Canal.
He shook himself like a dog getting out of water.
Kampala is the capital of Uganda.
With an expectant look she turned to me.
She broke her promise.
Do you want to start the barbecue season on New Year?
Give me an O!
His papers are forged.
For that you have to change the attachment.
It fails due to the federalism.
One has not know everything.
The test result was negative.
Do all animals need sleep?
The initial euphoria turned into a sense of disillusionment.
Whose idea was it to spell photo with PH?
Actually, very frequent usage of soap is bad for the skin.
I think he should be my friend.
I’m here to bring you tidings of joy!
His followers are at gunpoint.
The bearded man at the table over there looks like Papa Smurf.
You can only donate blood if you weigh at least fifty kilograms.
For some reason, the spellcheck says almost every name is incorrect.
Firefox should not be the same as Chrome because the target audience is different.
A poultice tray needs to be warm and comfortable.
What time is it?
Now we have discovered rock types that were not found in any other corner of the world.
Herbert echoes himself as he calls the criminal association.
Set square and parabolic stencil are required for mathematics lessons.
The old devices have been decommissioned.
Then Mr. Birnbaum took the scepter in his hand.
April, April!
Ask him about the Russian.
From experience she obviously knew it would fit.
Looking for trains to Düsseldorf that leave tomorrow at ten o’clock.
She still lives at hotel mama.
Who wants to discuss that with me?
Who wants to proofread more sentences?
The wire can be tied to the hooks like this.
Hello, We are from the main custom office and we conduct an employer check.
She thought, actually it is time to go to sleep.
If you are too late, you can put your name on the waiting list.
As a left footer you often have advantages when it comes to sport.
Let them have it!
Without saying a word, she continued to spoon her porridge.
On the hotline you will only get rid of.
After the vehicle has been upgraded, it is now ready for a test drive.
Please don’t stand here!
In that sense you are right.
The memory of the crimes and atrocities perpetrated by the Nazis must be kept alive.
The medicine student failed badly through his Physikum.
The entire campaign is essentially a trial run.
In places like this, the former giants fought for their lives.
To touch her own eyes is a terrible imagination for Helena.
Fear is one of the biggest problems in our society.
And from this point on, I have amnesia again.
Commissioner Bohrmann has been suspended from duty.
That’s what happens when you do it in passing.
You never know what awaits you in the depths of the cave.
The saucer sticks to the cup.
There are cultural differences on the topic of hospitality.
The actual impact has not yet been discussed to the final extent.
Tell the stay-at-home guy that he should come out.
Mister Jepsen has a key to the boathouse.
This completely backfired.
So boys, we continue in a bit!
Autumn and winter are perfect to craft things in the basement.
Some active citizens plant birches and beeches at the edge of the forest.
Fiona is very communicative.
Is the cacao UTZ certified?
Stop the clock.
How warm will it be tomorrow?
Who wants a lollipop?
Jerusalem is the capital city of Israel.
The host duo is known for its teasing and digging.
Write an e-Mail.
The tip and the tail are particularly decorative.
Diligently, he performs one hand movement after the other.
She had an asthma inhaler in her purse.
That is why the tanks work in comparison to the guns and helicopters.
Do you not have a general practitioner?
Start timer.
That will cost extra though.
As we told her, she had to laugh out loud.
The man with mustache makes no efforts to clean the room.
So he left it to the sister.
Not everyone is susceptible to it.
Cruise ships are unpopular with the residents of the harbor district.
Understanding means explaining it.
It’s definitely better than the previous one?
The concern wants to rush ahead in that area now to secure market shares.
My brother was very lucky.
Can you wiggle your ears?
No wonder!
I have to reload.
Death is a necessity in the circle of life.
Get your hands off me.
Can you expect minus temperatures in Baden-Baden today?
There is a difference between the geographic and the magnetic North Pole.
Did you mothers put fertilizers in your shoes?
I'm thinking more of a Neanderthal with a mace.
The microphone can be exchanged separately.
Three-point harnesses are safer than lap belts.
The sultan dispatched horsemen in order to find you.
When have you matriculated?
Don’t let yourself go.
The download has been bumbling for two hours now.
Didn't she want to sew a zipper to the bag?
Normally, you do not have straw lying in front of the power box.
And bam, right on the bumper!
Daniela wrinkles her nose.
As a consequence, blood vessels start tightening up.
Who wants to belong to us, must first pass a test of courage.
Light can also move without a medium.
The BMW cut me off and I had to swerve.
You are completely crazy.
Does the cabin in a paternoster elevator turn upside down?
Who else knows the code for the safe?
Otto is from East Friesland.
Save everything.
We’re looking for whizz kids and lateral thinkers.
Viktor won't listen to the babbling any longer.
Fortunately, the surface is very grippy at this point.
That is disgusting!
Sophia will get squashed.
Who does the work of a robot belong to?
Get me the help desk for those super rich who are being pursued by tax investigators.
Why does the health insurance send me new insurance cards all the time?
You wanna go shopping together?
Open media library!
Your smartphone vibrated when you were away.
Protons and neutrons consist of quarks.
Especially, they better cool down.
Do I have to change in Bochum?
Hermann beat his hands above his head together.
How warm is it going to be today?
Ah, that is no problem.
I am not authorized to give you any information on that topic.
For now, we can also bridge the component.
Do I need rain gear?
Weighing and measuring is a necessity when it comes to the basic ingredients.
Better, but not optimal.
We don’t have to go over all that on the blackboard.
In which episode did he kill his mother?
She was dropping something in her daughter’s eyes to reduce the allergic reaction.
The paleface is lying!
Which idiot has put the clothes drying rack under the shade?
For uninterrupted playback, the reading speed would not have been enough.
What’s on at the cinema at the moment?
Just at that moment Gandalf came to help.
Ludwig wrote himself a cheat sheet.
A griffin and a lion adorn the coat of arms of the city.
The internet is one of mankind’s greatest achievements.
Stand right, go left.
It’s unbelievable that marital rape has only been criminalized since the nineties.
The history of the town begins a few thousand years ago.
A parable flight costs a couple thousand Swiss Franks per person.
Because the term withdrawal was forbidden, it was always talked about front regulation.
He just gunned him down without batting an eye.
Ljubljana is the capital of Slovenia.
And why, out of everyone in the world, should we trust him?
The required hex wrench was already part of the IKEA shelf.
In September Rüdiger and some friends are going to hike in the alps.
I wanted to test whether you actually stop at a stop sign, explained the driving instructor.
Does the machine issue tickets to Mühlheim on the Ruhr as well?
Look, there is a template for the ghost.
Try the sea buckthorn liqueur!
From the earth you always see the same side of the moon.
Yes, why on earth not?
The blog entry is loaded with innuendos and nitpicking.
Our neighbors have their own mosquito breed in their garden pond.
I cannot hear the so-called economy expert talk anymore, Monica complained.
Due to the construction work in the Audimax, the lecture will take place in auditorium one and two.
Annika and Monika practice the guitar together.
The blogger will blog about the news on his blog in an instant.
Components and interfaces are visualized in a component diagram.
Is this a joke?
How do you wrap a turban?
Malé is the capital of the Maldives.
Washington DC is the capital of the United States of America.
This approach will remain without success.
Moscow is the capital of Russia.
Nouakchott is the capital of Mauretania.
In the distance you can see the cooling tower of the coal-fired power plant.
In a quiz, the quizmaster doesn't give you an infinite amount of time.
Overall when it comes to security questions there seems to be a lot of uncertainty.
Write down the number of your credit and debit cards, so you can put a block on them.
Have you ever seen a cop locking his car when he leaves it?
Make me a copy in DIN-A-three format, Guido asked his secretary.
The torque curve of a three-phase asynchronous machine looks like a meat hook.
Helga’s speech was mainly self-praise.
Division by zero should be intercepted.
His cousin got rich from selling emerald.
The crucial thing about knowledge is that you heed it and apply it.
During the inquisition, the witches were being burnt in torture chambers like this.
Who makes sure that no one can abuse my Common Voice donation.
Whoever is closest can start first.
There’s only overly expensive snacks at the bistro.
The result was a severe injury and I got off easy with that.
She cannot see the forest from the beams of trees.
Yaren is the capital of Nauru.
Later a bridge was built.
Nobody dared to disagree because he was not knows for his graciousness.
Listen up, workers and farmers, soon there will be nothing more to lament.
Should you squeeze out pimples yourself?
Editing the data accordingly is an easy task for Siebert.
All of this comes out of your time!
It’s down to the wire now.
All were just looking.
With her company, Tatjana is swimming in dough.
Then I have good news for you.
A response shouldn’t take more than two seconds.
I guess so.
I threw away my video recorder recently.
This is the best excuse not to dance.
And third, it is not allowed to talk about men in the conversation.
Where there’s a will, there’s a way.
I've never read afrofuturistic literature before.
They don't lack engine power.
That’s why the villain was able to meddle with it without being disturbed.
I heard a lot about you.
Crows develop amazingly clever problem-solving strategies.
Can you tell me all playlists that start with A?
But because it is made out of plastic, it will not last long.
A thousand years ago this was the center of a very old civilization.
The coinage also had to be abandoned.
Aden is de facto the capital of Jemen.
Udo misunderstood Bärbel.
Larissa mostly hears epic movie music on her MP-3 player.
The rain was pelting on the tent and created a unique atmosphere.
One should not only get his information from one source only even if it was on the news.
Ironically, in the end it’s gravity that prevents an eagle from falling down.
That's the crux of the matter.
All right, my conversational partner gave in.
Ludwig van Beethoven is one of the sons of the city of Bonn.
Ever since Heinrich found out he is allergic to dust, he has kept his apartment very clean.
We all have to tighten our belts now.
Lea is my new assistant.
I feel sick.
A massive rock rolled into the valley with the avalanche.
Is Nurnberg close to Cologne?
Sarah caught herself again not listening.
The most blockbusters fail.
The Romans are crazy.
The dish washing in our new flat is tiny.
Do you really have to discipline him when it comes to every single tiny thing?
The technically possible maximum performance is not comparable, however.
Ilse got fuzzy, attempting to imagine the function of a planet gear,
Dili is the capital of East Timor.
This is the only building spared from fire.
Stay alert.
It hasn’t been long since then.
It is not going to last forever.
The soldiers took a bite of bread.
Budapest is the capital of Hungary.
The machine comes from one of our sponsors.
To shield the injured from potential gawps, the firefighters formed a human wall.
However, now comes the final Test.
Yes, but the hornet was thicker than my ring finger!
The musicians change wagons at every station.
He’s just thorough.
You can find the information about information privacy here.
The trip to Paris was great.
Since his accident when he was twenty five years old, the former diver has been paralyzed.
Why not like that from the start?
Five diopters is quite a lot.
The four biggest cities of China are Shanghai, Peking, Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
You will need it.
It’s time to spread the seeds.
Will you be okay alone in Braunschweig?
Here you can see our crown jewels.
With this tiny side cutter, you just don’t get enough leverage.
Irina always adds a generous amount of salt and pepper.
Frida had moved into a corner with her girlfriend and giggled about something with her.
Close Firefox.
Live your dream!
They can't be hacked either after all.
Vinegar and oil as a base of every salad sauce.
The life of a star ends in a supernova.
The rest of the way we will cover in gliding flight.
Unfortunately, she is not sufficient to escape the Earth's gravitational field.
Each verse is sung by the lead singer and then the choir repeats it.
The sheet metal must be generously lined with baking paper so that it forms a border.
There are winners and losers on both sides.
Having a girlfriend is too stressful for me, that’s why I’d rather play video games.
Each time, the washing machine estimates the time required too pessimistically.
I haven’t experienced a marksman's festival like this in a long time.
Probably nobody knows which company is meant.
She forgot to carry forward here.
So the plans are ruined.
Should I blow?
Beside the main dishes, there is a wide offer of side dishes.
It is a question of expense.
I’ve never seen this approach.
This has not been woven, but knitted.
The Golden Gate Bridge is located in San Francisco.
In addition, there was less trade overall between the east and the west.
Let me teach you one thing better.
Man, your bookshelf is bristling already.
The Roman wars were actually financed by product placements.
Is she still on hold?
Many clerics volunteer as emergency ministers.
That’s not how that was meant.
The handle is engraved with runes that Sandro does not know the meaning of.
The first hybrid engines use diesel and electric motors were installed in submarines.
A deep ditch and a barbed wire fence - wouldn’t have one been enough?
Since the repair of the car, the problem has not occurred again.
The removal is being regulated in order to preserve species diversity.
He didn’t even steal something.
On your way to getting a full beard, there’s a period where it itches like hell.
Lithium deposits were discovered in Erzgebirge.
For dinner, we have meatballs with beans and potatoes.
Do I still have pasta?
What is understandable about it?
The fact that operations like that are still done is a disgrace.
It is a matter of honor!
Tricks like that don’t work on me.
Be very careful when handling magnets to prevent bruising.
Your clothes slipped out of place.
Somehow I have no reception at all here.
You have to corroborate this claim more.
Before you jump, you have to wait until the person in front of you swims away.
Do you want justice?
How long has the tea been infusing?
Alfons was flabbergasted.
You can’t go into work in this condition.
When money is no longer of value, natural exchange deals become more important.
It had to happen.
Let’s turn the sign post and then watch the people!
Traditionally, Spätzle are made with a wood board and pusher.
The salt content is exclusively due to natural sodium deposits.
With spaces in the path, the program cannot operate.
How do you escape the pig cycle?
Such dangerous situations can be easily avoided through proactive actions.
The operative income margin is almost one billion Dollar.
The characteristic smell of chlorine develops only when guests pee into the pool.
Jerewan is the capital of Armenia.
Erfurt is the state capital of Thuringia.
Your TÜV badge is expired.
That is how it is.
Mobile phone prices may vary.
The standard example of a torus is always the donut.
Thorsten can type faster than he can speak.
Due to the storm a severe weather warning was issued.
Because the term "retreat" was forbidden, there was always only talk of front straightening.
The Short-term memory wears out at first.
To insulate the soldered area again, a heat-shrink tubing is suitable.
It was only a cold comfort for Alida that no one else had made it either.
For aunt Gertrud her computer is just a typewriter with an autocorrect function.
In case you use the home phone you have to dial a zero before every call, even if you call the emergency.
In doing so, he opened Pandora’s box.
Helmut’s own wedding was marked red in the calendar just to be sure.
The teacher wrote Markus’ name down in the course book.
I have to admit that I am not a fan of this finance model.
The train left a long time ago.
From afar you can hear the chatter of the geese.
Damn it!
I’m out of ammo.
That’s what I consider to be a clever plan.
Is Bielefeld further away than Wiesbaden?
Basti is a lot of things, but definitely no miser.
Do you also feel something for her?
Then there is only direct confrontation left.
Is he from Schwerin?
I can’t complain.
The poet proclaimed.
We see more blurred and colorless in the darkness.
The provision is a paper tiger.
At the gas station we still have to buy a day vignette.
Thousands took to the streets today to demonstrate either for or against homosexual marriages.
My journey brought me to Cottbus.
Please help me peel the potatoes.
What a service!
What does that mean in Chinese?
You can't please everyone.
Caution is above all.
I need to confess something.
Wo should really let some air in.
Don’t get talked into something.
Ashes on my head.
My grandma is currently in the Isar hospital.
Volker’s birthday is on the fourteenth of March.
Here is your solo.
Oh yes, what did it have to do with again?
Better not having an arm than being poor.
Is it possible that you are a bit hoarse?
She couldn’t think straight anymore.
When do you remember cleaning the windows?
Well, now my ears are pumping.
She moaned.
Okay, then I do not want to further strain your patience.
Tell me, is there such a thing as the absolute best seller in your business?
Looking for trains to Freiburg in Breisgau.
These are the results of the exhaust inspection.
At carnival Kevin dressed up as a snowman.
How amazing is that?
Your tricks don’t wash with me.
This is an ambush.
Of course, there is still a big fear of aftershock
Why are eggs oval shaped and not round?
She’d love to curl up and die right now.
Difficult sudokus can not be solved with such simple algorithms.
I spy with my little eye something that's yellow, it's outside the door and it's about to ring the doorbell.
I’ll be with you shortly.
Sometimes it is better to wait a bit.
There are people on the road on the A-Eight, Karlsruhe to Stuttgart, between Pforzheim-North and Pforzheim-East.
Neighbor Krause complained about the cactus that had fallen from the balcony.
Which pieces are available?
From the other direction one could hear the splashing of a stream.
Install app.
Characteristic for the pass road are the many avalanche tunnels.
The original is just so much better.
And now in Marketing-German!
Through the identification of symmetries the searching area can considerably be restricted.
Functional illiteracy is also a major problem in Germany and Europe, which is often underestimated.
When will the scaffold be finally removed?
When will he finally grow up?
I’m doing great.
The armor clattered tinny.
Now it is time.
“You have my full attention”, ensured Hermann.
Stepping on the grass prohibited.
It is marked in the dictionary.
This whisky is adulterated.
You're a crumb monster.
Grandma Gertrud carefully peered through the spyhole.
I had to wait a long time in Ingolstadt.
Drink what you can because it will stimulate the mind.
The packing cases are all already packed.
My Partner has jammed.
Caution, the bollard is lifting and lowering automatically.
The owner of the vehicle with license plate HH-AB-one-hundred-twenty-three should please come to the office.
There’s always a strong breeze at the coast.
You won't be finished until you have cleaned up.
The villa is guarded like a fortress.
Again and again one sees a few sparks flashing inside.
I just wanted to annoy you a little bit.
You can see through the windows how the wings get bent.
Find out what happened at Brüggemann's.
The aspect was simply ignored in the planning.
Jörg keeps the wood and steel drills separately from each other.
He was stammering something of beryllium.
The beer from the city’s own brewery indeed has tradition, but it does not taste very good.
No, but repair equipment.
Where can I go for dinner tonight?
That's why you can specify the wavelength exactly.
This casts a bad light on me.
Does Bayreuth have a train station?
As lucky charm Ken stuck a horseshoe in front of the passenger seat in his car.
Can you borrow me your pen?
Look at my chubby tummy.
She is on vacation in Denmark.
The treehouse rule applies here: anyone who can’t get in without help has nothing to say.
The dice have rolled.
When neural nets trained to recognize images dream, they create artistic images.
Then everything is okay again.
Fortunately, he was vaccinated against tetanus.
The small one is still very playful.
Hopefully the resourceful entrepreneur can bring out the main points here.
Remarkable, Kurt was astonished.
Yes, this is how it should happen.
We only have a short amount of time, then they are poised for violence.
Henning searches the box for a matching nut to go with the screw.
There, a narrow bridge leads over the stream.
We continue to wish Ms. Schumann all the best for the future.
Such terrible quality control wouldn’t pass any quality control except its own check, of course.
Michael got the role for it.
One of the duties of a coach is to teach discipline to the team.
What about this?
What rifle are you using for this round?
Cattle have four stomachs which is why they can digest parts of plants which are only fibers for us.
Verena is surprised that everyone in this heterogeneous group got along so well with each other.
What about the CPU load?
Sorry, I have a lump in my throat.
The gate is secured with a lock.
In hindsight, I regret not taking advantage of this opportunity.
I would like to order it online.
Jeanette underwent the procedure without complaining.
Don’t we try to ask somebody else for the way?
What’s a good place to eat in Bonn?
Only after Antje had seen the original did she understand some of the allusions to the parody.
The agency has hired the adjoining flat for observation purposes.
At the current pollen count allergy sufferers should stay inside.
The economists are slowly becoming complacent
Every voter has the right to watch the counting.
The horde stood tightly in rank and file before the commander.
On the label was sixty-nine Euro ninety-nine.
Open internet.
Take it easy, an old man isn’t an express train.
We cannot answer it that detailed.
The victims were brought to emergency housing by bus.
And I, idiot, thought it was a good deal!
The removal of the tonsils is not often medically reasonable.
Put the heater a bit warmer.
How is a male nurse called anyway?
Set timer to 20 minutes.
You can’t see anything in the dim light.
If it doesn’t depict clearly to you, take a multimeter and measure it.
Was he born in Wiesbaden?
It’s your turn.
Disgusting!
I have all the valuable things in my locker.
Recommend the app to my friends.
The robots are working so precisely you wouldn’t be able to recognize a difference in quality.
Does Alina play in the wind ensemble too?
It is a perfidy but effective strategy
Instead of comma one can also say commas.
Due to its difficult topology, the area is not covered by telemetry just yet.
All the logic plot mistakes are so obvious.
That doesn’t work, it is a one-way road.
All tickets we bought were nothing.
Turn off the alarm system.
The Saturn is distinguished clearly from other planets through his rings.
To be fair, it is also worth mentioning that for many names there are the most incredible spellings.
Carry on!
Knives, forks, scissors and light are not for little children.
Did I make you curious?
Do you have a moment?
The shot has a striking green undertone.
The storm destroyed trees as if they were matchsticks.
A one-hundred-tone press punches out the individual pieces.
In the shade of the lilac, a perennial is growing.
Oh, sorry, I guess I have dialed the wrong number.
Call back your people.
Bernd is meeting a few friends to play mini golf.
It’s sad to watch how people applaud while their rights are being infringed upon.
But it’s easy to confuse it for different, poisonous umbellifers.
Are you more of a sweet or a savory guy?
Pelicans are water birds, which are easily recognizable because of their lower mandible.
Development aid is not quite as selfless as it might appear at first glance.
She went to Ikea and bought some barred windows.
Please dispose of waste in an appropriate and environmentally friendly manner.
There's a dead animal on the way.
The suspect is not cooperating.
I want to complain about the bad service at the workshop.
Next weekend, it’s daylight saving time.
Some tend to be arrogant about youth when they grow old.
There is plastic deformation on the part.
Redeem the win code standing below and look forward to your holiday in the Caribbean.
Thanks to the LED headlight, I can see when I ride my bike in the winter.
In view of the insect mortality, a research project on artificial pollination of plants is now starting at the technical university.
Where did you get it from?
Audaciously, the surfer plunged into the waves.
In Stralsund, you get on the intercity train to Stuttgart, which also stops in Rostock.
Do you have a source for your claim?
Is anyone being bullied in your grade?
Don’t you want to talk about all your adventures?
In the advertisement it is explicitly mentioned that it should not become a shared apartment with purposes.
But without further measures the decay cannot be stopped.
The Blu-ray could not be played because of the copyright protection.
Berta has invited us to a wine tasting in Kaiserslautern.
With her sleigh, Melissa fell down a slope.
He cleared his throat.
No backtalk, this will get done right away!
Rome is the capital of Italy.
The hen continued to incubate her eggs.
No way!
Okay, then not.
Free software does not have to be at no charge.
I had lasagna today.
In the East this is called the day of the men.
I think they slept for years.
“Is fondue or raclette served for New Years Eve?”, Zeynep wants to know.
You can ride a bicycle to Wilhelmshaven.
Instead of increased strength, the magic potion increased beard growth.
On Wednesday evening the student body invites you to a round of Skat.
How is it called in Bavarian?
The oracle had spoken in parables.
Can that thing stop purring like that?
Is there a politically correct term for it?
The neighbor is driving sawn off tree trunks around again.
Java does not let the programmer overload operators.
Combat dogs are only allowed in public with a muzzle.
I don’t feel good about that.
All mammals have roughly the same body temperature.
Nip it in the bud!
Is university only a net for uncertain people?
The irrigation system failure should maximally last a week.
Santiago de Chile is the capital of Chile.
Smile please.
Everything is from my private fundus.
On the twenty-ninth of February he is going to celebrate his twelfth birthday, but is going to be forty-eight.
Heligoland is often used by our wind power engineers as a stopover.
Nature is pretty brutal.
How do I explain to a layman what I do for a living?
Which Addons are you using for Firefox?
Did you also visit St. Peter’s Basilica?
The worst storms have passed us by.
Are we taking the stairs or the elevator?
Do you want tea this morning?
Witching hour begins at midnight.
Any craftsman, who has worked in a kitchen, knows that.
What type of learner are you?
Because we want to add sound to a horror movie.
Frau Schlüter gave detention to the entire class.
The last time it unfortunately did not go so well.
You can use the telephone pole for orientation.
You always meet twice in life.
How many synonyms for the gathering of dissatisfied people can you think of?
On the way to the library Fridolin was surprised by a downpour.
Did you look it up in the Duden?
Don’t you see that the device is out of order?
However, considerable citizen protests are to be expected.
He will sue the magazine if they print the picture like that.
Is it raining in Bielefeld today?
Oldtimers must be at least thirty years old before they receive an H license plate.
Did you eat garlic?
For a moment, a white unicorn appeared, but shyly escaped.
Hands behind your back!
We have one other important arrangement.
You can’t throw the towel now!
It was founded in Vienna in Austria, and it exists to this day.
I’m from Mannheim.
Looking for trains to Hildesheim that leave tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Why did you think of that?
Like a naughty brat, Miriam lurks on the couch.
Let us repeat it once again.
Susanne is afraid of heights.
Delete app.
I hate stuff like that!
He is one of my best men.
There’s a much cheaper competitor’s product that tastes just as good and doesn’t have this ingredient.
No one would have expected him to go that far.
Surely that’s just a test alarm.
What qualifies your spouse for this job?
So is it a frictional connection or a positive connection?
She clenched her hand to form a first.
The rain forest along the equator are considered to be the lungs of the earth.
That is not the decision of the supervisory authority.
Of course it was that!
Certainly!
You old polluter!
He can sell you the best snuff in the whole entire country.
The baby sucks on the bottle.
It is forbidden to talk about this night.
It is not like that.
Margot rubs her hands due to happiness.
The most stupid questions often come from teachers who used to be the worst pupils.
“What are you planning to do with that?” he asked.
If anyone has any objections, speak now or forever hold your peace.
In any case, the general retains the power of decision.
Have you drunk alcohol or consumed drugs?
We don't have to unravel it any further.
She won a trip to Australia in a lottery.
How long is it going to take me to get to work today?
That was intentional.
The load on your trailer is not secure enough.
The handle can only be opened in the station.
While he was already packing his travel bag in his mind, he left the shop.
This is a very easy exercise for the crooked pitch.
I don’t believe it, Lou is actually on time!
There is a flat rate charged per kilometer.
My client will not comment on this.
During an witness interview you have to formulate the questions as minimally suggestive as possible.
The blinked bleary-eyed.
What does that mean in Catalan?
She pleasurably lounges in the sun.
This concerns everyone.
Benjamin shook his head energetically.
Nobody will hear her cry for help.
Thoughtfully Ferdinand lit himself a cigar and puffed.
Why are you standing around? There is plenty to do.
Nothing is helping.
For this purpose, the institute offers a crash course to every employee.
What about this game is supposed to be glorifying violence?
But no one has ever been at the center of the earth.
At these depths, the seabed is largely unexplored.
David chose advanced geography.
You sometimes get this impression when reading the news.
Many dedicated do-gooders want to help the migrants.
Is that another strange accent or already a speech impediment?
There is also a rice bag next to the potato bag.
Customs is subordinate to the Federal Ministry of Finance.
Tank or plate?
The baking-oven must be preheated to one hundred and eighty degrees Celsius.
When can I read out sentences again?
Nightshifts are better paid for a reason.
Don’t you want to sit outside with me?
Oh yes!
Above all, apartments are being built in the upper price segment.
Which do you prefer, Nord Stream pipeline gas or fracking gas from the United States?
Siegfried Runge signed up under a false name and now believes he is anonymous.
The drug findings are old news already.
Oranienbaum castle is just a couple of kilometers from Park of Wörlitz and it’s always worth a visit.
She feels terribly sorry.
Next time I won’t let you get off so easily.
Or you just let it be.
No, I’m paying for this myself.
The ball boy has a lot to do today.
When the fever goes up, you freeze, when it goes down, you sweat.
Veterinary medicine is a demanding course of studies.
On his deathbed, he revealed everything.
How can you also welcome this dream dancer?
Especially since somebody would feel hurt in the end anyway.
Can you sing that song from yesterday to me again?
“Do you need a jump start?” Fritz offered helpfully.
If one does not have any ice skates, they can be rented on-site.
If they’re not absorbing one thing, it’s knowledge.
No matter how you do it, someone will always complain.
Are you going to church on Christmas Eve?
In addition to efficient organization, a decline in employee theft is also expected.
Retrieve messages.
Renate has been waiting since six months for a donor organ.
As you can see, the result is at least not completely outrageous.
There was deafening applause.
Marie made an alternative suggestion.
Is the precision sufficient?
In principle, it is, but the characteristics are individually different.
Oh, so that is the way the wind is blowing.
After his fifth try Valentin gave up.
Rabea applied for a patent for her discovery.
The costs are also higher than previously assumed.
The perpetrator was apparently stopped in the act.
He caught her in the deed.
While those who, in the past, were only interested in entertainment are now using the medium to become even dumber.
Nassau is the capital of the Bahamas.
I'm not interested in the details.
Mrs. Hofer I forgot my gym bag.
Stop spoiling!
What was that?
Theodora recommended the Christmas market in Nuremberg to us.
Do I still have beer in the fridge?
Many platform-specific apps could easily be realized as portable web applications, too.
The next drought will definitely come.
Wait, boys!
“Functional programming isn’t really my thing,” admitted Melvin.
Family Schütz has a pool in the garden.
Wow, look at the skater with the baseball cap!
How warm is it in Hannover?
Your job is to distract the audience.
Find it out!
We ate a lot of ice cream last week.
Susi is too short.
They are armed against the storm, but not against the flood.
I would not express it that harshly.
That was clear.
May I offer you a piece of cake?
Then FC Bayern Munich wouldn’t be German champion year in and year out.
There are many pickpockets here so be aware.
Do we still have yoghurt?
The Sahara is the largest desert in the world.
The stomach must go, thinks Sönke with a view into the mirror.
What's new in Offenburg?
We go through every element of the list and return in case of a hit.
A circus without animals?
The food is getting cold.
The exercises could be even harmful for untrained.
The measured values must be taken with caution.
Here, take my hand!
Even the cab.
You should not talk with full mouth.
Do you spend a lot of time together?
The two are gone ever since Monday evening.
Many do not know that the peal is also ok to eat.
May I take your coat?
The Hanse Sail is held annually in Rostock.
More than a shrug of the shoulder was Samantha not to be elicited.
With an insane speed he dashes over the runway.
In Berlin you call Frikadellen, Buletten.
Dimitri Hagen let it all pass through his head again.
Why isn't she answering?
But what are the implications?
The manufacturing process has shrunk to twenty-two nanometers.
She is light like a feather.
The three were caught in the prohibited zone.
What would be the alternative to rice pudding?
Whatever, it is delicious.
What matters is that the ball enters the goal.
Stress makes you sick.
Turn off the light in the corridor.
Good point, Ulrich.
I killed him, he admitted with his gaze lowered.
We rotate counterclockwise once.
Looking for train connections to Nuremberg.
He’s my fiancé.
Looking for a train connection to Stuttgart.
Nadja demonstrates her self invented snake trap.
But I’m too distracted anyway to taste anything.
You're definitely not getting through access control with that.
The brat lies through their teeth.
Modern freezers cool down the food to sub-zero temperatures extremely fast.
Happy somersault day, you owl!
‘Sour makes happy’, is what they say.
One day everything will fall to dust.
Who lies once, you do not believe.
Impatiently he tugged at my sleeve.
Liver and Kidneys help fundamentally in the detoxification of the blood.
What does Wikipedia say?
Let us still visit the armory.
What is going on here?
In the end it is a zero-sum game.
Select program.
Eleven pros are playing sports, millions of viewers are getting fat.
Uncertain, but full of beans, Denise started to bounce.
Did you not read it?
It snowed incredibly much.
In any way not, if you ask a specific question to the facts of their field of expertise.
But what if the distribution is multimodal?
Man, this is really starting to annoy me, grumbled Fritz in frustration.
The general appearance is not harmonious.
The monk led us to the tomb near the monastery.
From seventeen-hundred-twelve till nineteen-hundred-eighteen, Saint Petersburg was the capital of the Russian empire.
Uranus has twenty seven known moons.
The staff is happy when they are greeted in their mother tongue.
Are we having pork, beef or mixed mince meat?
Now it is time to roll up your sleeves.
People who collect debt are generally disliked because of their profession.
Is the coffee too strong?
The worst thing about this weather is the puddles, not the rain.
Yesterday we wrote an unannounced vocabulary test in English.
The prices for solar energy decreased in the past years.
Hold my fishing rod for a second.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
It is a compromise between high performance and low latency.
The tax won’t make the difference.
Show snow report for St. Anton.
What is it called in Serbocroatian?
I have to quickly do something beforehand.
Although any criminal knows that the police are looking for patterns, because they watch crime shows too, it’s often impossible to hide such patterns.
Poverty shouldn’t be the reason for this unusual dwelling.
It’ll be difficult from such a sharp angle.
Who wants to be told when to get groceries?
Let's see who won.
They are bound to have cough syrup in this pharmacy!
Then there productivity decreases and they will be slaughtered.
She phrased a questions that surely a lot of British people ask.
She had watched too many horror stories on TV.
We heard the crystal clear sound of the new speakers.
It has been like this all week long.
I would be okay if the further investigations would be almost noiseless.
I’m a student.
Yes, you are right!
Actually she just comes in time for us.
As a compromise we could turn on the AC and open the windows on top of that.
Bundeskartellamt restricts data collection from Facebook.
The season finale was very exciting and surprising.
The train to Wetzlar leaves from platform three today.
How about a compromise?
The view of the snow-covered landscape was fabulous.
Can I buy a ticket to Pforzheim here?
Will I see you at handball practice later?
Calculating the day of the week for a given date is not so difficult.
A small token of appreciation would be appropriate.
The three of them watched the spider spinning its web.
Poor Bolle died as a result of domestic violence.
You didn’t try at all.
Seafood increasingly contains traces of microplastics.
Will I become a better person if I feel guilty while doing it?
The majority was in favor of giving tit for tat.
The baker processes the flour together with other ingredients and makes bread.
We ask you to leave the play corner just how you found it!
I hope we can reach a common agreement as a German community.
Can you still crack modern cars with a tennis ball?
Levin still has to be overcome with fear.
With eighteen you are an adult, but you are far from being responsible or grown up.
Your dishwasher is washing loudly!
Water is essential for survival.
Potatoes have many facets.
The deadline is in January the year after that.
Do I still have any sweet cream?
Do you know the campfire song from SpongeBob?
The Elbe passes through Dresden, Magdeburg and Hamburg before it leads into the Northern Sea near Brunsbüttel.
I did not vote for that joker in the government.
Why did our consumption pattern get so out of hand?
We call him the phantom.
Such a slip of the tongue would be embarrassing in her presence.
Is scuffling considered a basic need? It does not matter what gender.
Tomorrow is another day when nothing will be managed.
Now I have lost the thread.
What’s the fastest way to get to Essen?
Back in the days could shoot over the ocean with supersonic speed as you pleased.
Finn is completing his internship at a school in the middle of the ghetto.
Helmut fills his car with E-ten and doesn’t understand why Dimitri boycott this type of fuel.
We'll make your face unrecognizable in the editing process.
Who has barbeque igniters?
The latter are build in for example, in mopeds, lawnmowers and chainsaws.
Only the host has the right to invite more people.
The capital of the German Republic is Berlin.
Freiburg im Breisgau is a relatively bike-friendly town.
Posen and Krakow have also been capitals of Poland.
On the way we overtook a Bundeswehr convoy consisting of fifteen vehicles.
Hello, all you beautiful people.
Brutto is derived from “impure”, net from “pure”.
Not everything was bad.
Do they pay their dues monthly, quarterly, bi-annually or annually?
Parallelism is also achievable without multi-process architecture.
She would have liked to have saved the brokerage fee for the broker.
Your dog was attacking my child.
You can easily tell that the groom is nervous.
In case of excess Oxygen, Nitrogen oxide van be formed.
Your generation has also initiated the war!
The monopoly on the use of force lies with the state.
I once walked across the Lüneburger Heide by foot.
I’m searching unsuccessfully for a pleasant and discreetly smelling aftershave or aftershave balm.
Build your opinion!
Svenja still hasn’t gotten over her husband’s death.
I wanted to hear the answer.
The scent of spring poured into her nose.
How long do I have to wear the cast?
Erwin wants to stay at Peer’s from Friday to Saturday.
Every needle may be only used once to avoid infections.
This is truly admirable.
The so-called third hand holds the two cable ends, which are to be soldered.
I actually wanted to do both in a wash-up.
I don’t like my little brother.
We would like to order this.
Now I know where the error in reasoning lies.
It smells like cold sweat.
If he snores, I can't sleep very well.
We hope he will turn a blind eye again.
The acquisition of the data is only the first step.
It’s quite an imposition what you’re faced with there.
Manama is the capital of Bahrain.
It is a pity that the Transrapid test track in Emsland is no longer used.
What do you do about a towel that has fuzzes?
If i remember correctly, the first programming language i learned was Pascal.
Yes, but that DC motor isn’t brushless.
We could continue this line indefinitely.
The payment is based on the relative tariff of the public service.
The fingerprints don’t match.
Can you get rid of my splinter?
Let’s go!
First snow is already falling in Allgäu.
Mom, can have ice cream?
Next you have to add wheat and milk and stir well.
Even with this being an early draft, the basic idea can already be seen.
Watch the previews first, Jana recommended.
Is there a nice museum in Hamm?
I will take care of it later.
Due to Wealth, Mark has become another person.
Do the neighbors know?
Let's extend the awning.
Tiflis is the capital of Georgia.
The individual animals seem dumb, it’s only when viewed as a whole that can you see the hive mind.
South Tarawa is the capital of Kiribati.
I’m cutting out meat this week.
Do you have a light?
Better late than never.
The code is not maintained anymore.
Good thoughts, good words, good deeds.
In what is this reflected?
DUI, that’s going to be expensive!
And somehow the ball slid through the goal keepers braces.
Who is wearing the pants?
If you don’t want to drink cola you can also use it as a detergent.
The Netherlands did not qualify for the world cup.
It is linked to the motor shaft by a toothed belt or chain..
