I don't know.
Do we have any noodles left?
Have you ever wanted to make your computer dance to your own tune?
Here's what it comes down to.
The following program is not suitable for viewers under the age of sixteen.
Better than nothing.
Can I buy a ticket to Bonn here?
Parents are liable for their children.
Islamabad is the capital of Pakistan.
Show me all items in the shopping cart.
How long does it take to get from Worms to Emden by train?
I'm out of ammunition!
Now it's other people's turn.
Can you catch a ball behind your back?
It's a long way from Flensburg to Delmenhorst.
I can even tie a double knot.
Toyota offers various models also as hybrid.
The tasks are not good for him.
This is a typical rear-end collision.
I know this facial expression from your sister.
Convertibles come with fabric or metal roofs.
I did my bachelor's degree in mathematics in Jena before, Anton told me.
Interstellar law applies between galaxies.
At the end of the bike tour, everyone complained of sore muscles in their thighs.
Felix is a calf biter.
The Wankel engine is unlikely to catch on in passenger cars.
The kind priest took the orphan under his wing.
So more fuel can be injected.
You wouldn't believe all the stuff Lora has stashed in her hiking backpack.
We sealed all the exits.
No matter how good you are at math, you can effortlessly find an overwhelming problem.
Now please put on your pants.
He's gone through the whole collection.
What a cheek!
Everything is precisely regulated and is also adhered to.
It's self-service at the counter over there.
Evelyn is seasick.
The fog was so thick Steven could barely see his own hands.
The soup you've brought on yourselves, you'll have to spoon out now, too.
Wet clothes dry especially quickly in the sun.
Not to mention newer stuff.
First print, then ask, that's the credo of Springer and Sixt.
No one wanted to believe him that he was from the future.
Four hundred and thirty-five kilometers to go.
Let's hope the plan works.
In fact, using soap too often is bad for the skin.
She dribbles some into her daughter's eyes to make the allergic reaction subside.
Udo has misunderstood Bärbel.
The gate is padlocked.
Why doesn't she answer?
