No clue.
Do we still have noodles?
Have you always wanted your computer to do exactly what you want?
That's what matters.
The following program is not suitable for viewers under the age of sixteen.
Better than nothing.
Can I buy here a ticket to Bonn?
Parents go to prison for their children.
Islamabad is the capital of Pakistan
Show me all the articles in your shopping basket.
How long does it take to take the train from Worms to Emden?
I'm out of ammunition!
Now it's your turn.
Can you catch a ball behind your back?
It’s a long way from Flensburg to Delmenhorst.
I can even do a double knot.
Toyota also offers various models as hybrids.
The exercises are not good for him.
That is a typical rear-end collision.
I know the facial expression from your sister.
There are convertibles with fabric or metal roofs.
Before this, I did my BA in Mathematics in Jena, Anton said.
Between the galaxies there is interstellar law.
At the end of the bike trip everybody were complaining about having sore muscles in the thighs.
Felix is a small dog.
The Wankel engine is unlikely to become established in passenger cars.
The kind pastor took care of the orphan.
So more fuel can be injected.
You won’t believe what Lora managed to stuff in her hiking backpack.
We closed off all exits.
No matter how good you are in mathematics, you will find a stressing problem effortlessly.
Please put on pants.
He searched the whole collection.
What an impudence!
Everything is exactly regulated and will be respected.
At the counter over there it says self-service.
Evelyn is sea sick.
The fog was so heavy, Steven could hardly see his own hands.
The soup you've got yourselves into must now be eaten.
In the sun, wet clothes dry especially quick.
Apart from newer things.
First print, then ask, so the credo of Springer and Sixt.
Nobody believed that he came from the future.
Another four hundred thirty five kilometers until our destination.
The plan works hopefully.
Actually, very frequent usage of soap is bad for the skin.
She was dropping something in her daughter’s eyes to reduce the allergic reaction.
Udo misunderstood Bärbel.
The gate is secured with a lock.
Why isn't she answering?
