No idea.
Do we still have pasta?
Have you always wanted to let your computer dance to its own tune?
That's what matters.
The following program is not suitable for viewers under the age of sixteen.
Better than nothing.
Can I buy a ticket to Bonn here?
Parents are responsible for their children.
Islamabad is the capital of Pakistan.
Show me all items in the shopping cart.
How long does it take to travel from Worms to Emden by train?
I'm out of ammo!
Now it's others' turn.
Can you catch a ball behind your back?
It is a long distance from Flensburg to Delmenhorst
I can even do a double knot.
Toyota also offers various models as hybrids.
The tasks are not good for him.
This is a typical rear-end collision.
I know that look on your sister's face.
Convertibles are available with fabric or metal roofs.
I did my bachelor's degree in mathematics in Jena, Anton said.
Interstellar law applies between the galaxies.
At the end of the bike tour, everyone complained about sore muscles in their thighs.
Felix is a calf biter.
The Wankel engine will probably no longer prevail in passenger cars.
The kind priest took the orphan under his wing.
More fuel can therefore be injected.
You won't believe what Lora has packed in her hiking backpack.
We sealed all exits.
No matter how good you are at math, it's easy to find an overwhelming problem.
Now please put your pants on.
He went through the whole collection.
What cheek!
Everything is precisely regulated and is also observed.
That counter over there is self-service.
Evelyn is seasick.
The fog was so thick Steven could barely see his own hands.
Now you have to spoon out the soup that you have brought on for yourself.
Wet clothing dries particularly quickly in the sun.
Not to mention the newer stuff.
Print first, then ask, that's the credo of Springer and Sixt.
Nobody wanted to believe that he was from the future.
Four hundred and thirty-five kilometers to go.
Hopefully the plan will work out.
In fact, using soap too often is bad for your skin.
She puts something in her daughter's eyes to ease the allergic reaction.
Udo misunderstood Bärbel.
The gate is secured with a padlock.
Why isn't she answering?
